

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

A-Z Index

Ã

Submit

Search

Submit

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Search Dropdown

Submit

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Emerging Infectious Disease journal ISSN: 1080-6059

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

#####  Volume 17, Number 1âJanuary 2011

##### _Commentary_

###  How Safe Is Our Food?

On This Page

Commentary

* * *

Cite This Article

Downloads

Article

* * *

RIS [TXT - 2 KB]

Altmetric

Metric Details

J. Glenn Morris![Comments to Author](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif)

Author affiliation: Author affiliation: University of Florida, Gainesville,
Florida, USA

Cite This Article

Open modal

How safe is our food? Put another way, how much illness in the United States
is caused by foodborne pathogens? It sounds like a simple question. Getting a
reasonable answer, however, is far from simple. The basic problem lies in the
fact that only a small fraction of foodborne disease cases get reported
through official (or unofficial) reporting systems. Calculating the ârealâ
rate of foodborne illness requires development of models that use reported
cases as a starting point to estimate underlying disease rates. Given the
plethora of pathogens that can be transmitted through foodborne routes, this
is a complex, and somewhat daunting, process. It is, however, necessary for
assessing the safety of foods and developing strategies for disease
prevention. The articles by Scallan et al. ( _1_, _2_) in this issue represent
the latest efforts to develop such estimates of the magnitude of foodborne
illness in the United States.

In 1999, Mead et al. ( _3_) published initial estimates of foodborne disease
in the United States. This landmark undertaking was the first to provide a
comprehensive compilation of data from a variety of sources, including the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the medical literature.
It resulted in the often-cited estimates that foodborne pathogens cause 76
million episodes of illness, 325,000 hospitalizations, and 5,000 deaths each
year in the United States. (Hereafter, episodes of illness are referred to as
illnesses.) During the past decade, these numbers have strongly driven ongoing
efforts to implement or reform regulatory systems to protect the public from
foodborne illness. However, some aspects of the methods have been criticized,
particularly the high degree of uncertainty of particular parameters and thus
of the results themselves ( _4_ _â_ _6_). These concerns have led to
requests for CDC to repeat and update the work of Mead et al., using better
methods and parameter estimates that more closely reflect current realities.

Now, â11 years later, Scallan et al. have produced âSons of Mead,â which
include substantial improvements to the methods used by Mead et al. and to the
quality and timeliness of data ( _1_, _2_). Scallan et al. should be
commended, especially for 2 specific improvements: their advanced treatment of
statistical uncertainty and variability and their transparent inclusion of
voluminous appendixes of data, models, and assumptions. These authors followed
the same basic approach as Mead et al. but chose to report their estimates in
2 articles. In the first article, they based their estimates of illnesses
caused by 24 major pathogens (e.g., _Salmonella_ spp., _Escherichia coli_
O157:H7) primarily on data from the Foodborne Diseases Active Surveillance
Network (FoodNet) and other pathogen-specific surveillance systems. In the
second article, they estimated illnesses caused by unknown (or unspecified)
pathogens by subtracting illnesses caused by known pathogens from the annual
estimated number of cases of acute gastroenteritis in the US population and
adjusting the result by the percentage assumed to be acquired domestically
through food. If these 2 estimates are combined, as they were by Mead et al.,
the new totals are 47.8 million foodborne illnesses, 127,839 hospitalizations,
and 3,037 deaths per year in the United States.

When one compares the 1999 and 2010 estimates (76 million vs. 47.8 million
illnesses), the immediate response is to ask: Does this mean that food in this
country is safer than it was 11 years ago? Unfortunately, the Scallan et al.
articles do not enable us to answer this question. The methods, underlying
assumptions, and parameter estimates used to generate these new numbers differ
sufficiently from those used â11 years ago to preclude comparisons. In fact,
if one looks simply at rates of overall gastrointestinal illness in the United
States, based on FoodNet Population Surveys ( _2_), one might infer that
overall rates of acute gastrointestinal illness have increased during this
period, from 0.49 episodes per person per year in 2000â2001, to 0.54 in
2002â2003, and to 0.73 in 2006â2007 (see [ _7_ ] for a discussion of some
methodologic issues with regard to the 2006â2007 survey). For the Scallan et
al. articles, these 3 numbers were averaged to arrive at a rate of 0.6
episodes of acute gastroenteritis per person per year over the past decade. In
contrast, Mead et al. used an estimate of 0.79 episodes of gastroenteritis per
person per year, based on FoodNet data but also on older community surveys;
they also used a somewhat different definition of acute gastrointestinal
illness. This difference in estimated annual rates of acute gastroenteritis,
when combined with a lower assumed proportion of gastroenteritis that is
foodborne, explains much of the dramatic drop in total annual episodes of
foodborne disease. Had Scallan et al. elected to use the 2006â2007 FoodNet
estimate of 0.73 cases per person per year rather than use the average of 0.6
cases, their numbers would have been substantially higher and closer to the
Mead et al. estimates.

Thus, if we canât use the Scallan estimates for comparison, is there any way
to say whether food in the United States is safer now than it was 11 years
ago? The best answer to this question comes from the FoodNet system ( _7_), an
active laboratory-based sentinel surveillance system that was established to
monitor the public health impact of the 1995 US Department of Agriculture
(USDA) Pathogen Reduction: Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HAACP)
System regulations (the first major revision of USDA food safety regulations
since 1906). FoodNet provides annual data from designated sentinel
surveillance sites on numbers of laboratory-diagnosed cases of 10
predominantly foodborne bacterial and parasitic pathogens; it reports actual
case totals, not estimates. Despite year-to-year variability (including
significant decreases in incidence of _Shigella_ spp. and _E. coli_ O157:H7
for 2009) ( _8_), the overall trends show an initial drop in incidence of
infection with the major bacterial foodborne pathogens after implementation of
the 1995 USDA regulations, followed by a leveling off of incidence in
subsequent years. One exception is infections caused by _Vibrio_ spp., which
are increasing, partly because climate change is affecting coastal
environments ( _9_). Bottom line: with the exception of _Vibrio_ spp., things
donât seem to be getting worse; however, after the initial decline since the
USDA regulatory changes in 1995, one does not see evidence of sustained
improvement.

How do numbers from the United States compare with those from Europe and the
rest of the world? Again, differences in methods used by Scallan et al. make
it difficult, if not impossible, to directly compare these numbers with those
being published by other countries, including Canada, Australia, and members
of the European Union ( _10_ _â_ _12_). Although these new estimates cannot
be compared directly with previous estimates or with estimates from other
countries, these articles nonetheless constitute a necessary starting point
for generation of more robust and regularly updated numbers. Looking across
time, use of a consistent method, with regular updating of data (ideally
annually), would provide a basis for assessing the effect of changes in
regulation and other interventions at a national level. Similarly, if the
methods are further modified in keeping with current international discussions
on standardization of foodborne disease estimates ( _13_), direct comparison
of US numbers with those from other countries may become possible.

Estimates of the relative burden of disease caused by specific pathogens are
crucial for improving our understanding of foodborne illness risks, but they
are insufficient on their own. To target interventions (which are almost
always food specific), illnesses must be quantified in terms of
foodâpathogen combinations. Doing so, in turn, requires development of what
have been termed food attribution data ( _14_ _,_ _15_). That is, how much
salmonellosis is caused by eating contaminated chicken versus eggs, beef, or
pork? How often is beef, compared with produce, the source of infection with
_E. coli_ O157:H7? Likewise, summary statistics such as number of cases,
hospitalizations, and deaths ignore at-risk subpopulations and chronic
sequelae such as end-stage renal disease, congenital toxoplasmosis, and
irritable bowel syndrome. As such, the World Health Organization and many
industrialized countries are increasingly reporting integrated measures of
disease, such as disability-adjusted life years, which more fully capture
disease symptoms and severities ( _13_). Furthermore, to reduce specific
foodborne hazards, we need information about the many factors along the
complex farm-to-table pathway that can lead to the introduction or
amplification of pathogens that contaminate food. This information would also
help determine feasibility and efficacy of potential interventions.

As outlined in a recent Institute of Medicine report ( _16_), implementation
of a modern, risk-based food safety system in the United States will
ultimately require much better data and a strong analytic capacity at the
federal level that cuts across current agency lines. Although we still have a
long way to go to bring our food safety system into the current century, the
articles by Scallan et al. are critical steps in the right direction.

Dr Morris is director of the Emerging Pathogens Institute and professor of
medicine at the College of Medicine, University of Florida; a member of the
Institute of Medicine Food and Nutrition Board; and an associate editor for
CDCâs Emerging Infectious Diseases journal. He has worked extensively with
foodborne pathogens and served on 5 National Academy of Sciences/Institute of
Medicine expert committees dealing with food safety.

Top

### References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. Scallan  E, Hoekstra  RM, Angulo  FJ, Tauxe  RV, Widdowson  M-A, Roy  SL,  Foodborne illness acquired in the United Statesâmajor pathogens. Emerg Infect Dis. 2010;17:7â15.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. Scallan  E, Griffin  PM, Angulo  FJ, Tauxe  RV, Hoekstra  RM. Foodborne illness acquired in the United Statesâunspecified agents. Emerg Infect Dis. 2011;17:16â22.PubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3. Mead  PS, Slutsker  L, Dietz  V, McCaig  LF, Bresee  JS, Shapiro  C,  Food-related illness and death in the United States. Emerg Infect Dis. 1999;5:607â24. DOIPubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4. Powell  M, Ebel  E, Schlosser  W. Considering uncertainty in comparing the burden of illness due to foodborne microbial pathogens. Int J Food Microbiol. 2001;69:209â15. DOIPubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5. Phillips  CV, LaPole  LM. 2003. Quantifying errors without random sampling. BMC Medical Research Methodology 2003;3:9 [cited 2010 Nov 15]. http://www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2288/3/9

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6. Frenzen  PD. Deaths due to unknown foodborne agents. Emerg Infect Dis. 2004;10:1536â43.PubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7. Cantwell  LB, Henao  OL, Hoekstra  RM, Scallan  E. The effect of different recall periods on estimates of acute gastroenteritis in the United States, FoodNet Population Survey 2006â2007. Foodborne Pathog Dis. 2010;7:1225â8. DOIPubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Preliminary FoodNet data on the incidence of infection with pathogens transmitted commonly through foodâ10 states, 2009. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2010;59:418â22.PubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9. Lipp  EK, Huq  A, Colwell  RR. Effects of global climate on infectious disease: the cholera model. Clin Microbiol Rev. 2002;15:757â70. DOIPubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10. Adak  GK, Long  SM, OâBrien  SJ. Trends in indigenous foodborne disease and deaths, England and Wales: 1992â2000. Gut. 2002;51:832â41. DOIPubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11. OzFoodNet Net Working Group. Monitoring the incidence and causes of diseases potentially transmitted by food in Australia: annual report of the OzFoodNet Network, 2008. Commun Dis Intell. 2009;33:389â413.PubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12. Flint  JA, Van Duynhoven  YT, Angulo  FJ, DeLong  SM, Braun  P, Kirk  M,  Estimating the burden of acute gastroenteritis, foodborne disease, and pathogens commonly transmitted by food: an international review. Clin Infect Dis. 2005;41:698â704. DOIPubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13. Kuchenmuller  T, Hird  S, Stein  C, Kramarz  P, Nanda  A, Havelaar  AH. Estimating the global burden of foodborne diseasesâa collaborative effort. Euro Surveill. 2009;14:pii:19195.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        14. Batz  MB, Doyle  MP, Morris  JG, Painter  J, Singh  R, Tauxe  RV, ; Food Attribution Working Group. Linking illness to food: summary of a workshop on food attribution. Emerg Infect Dis. 2005;11:993â9. PubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        15. Pires  SM, Evers  EE, van Pelt  W, Ayers  T, Scallan  E, Angulo  FJ, ; Med-Vet-Net Workpackage 28 Working Group. Attributing the human disease burden of foodborne infections to specific sources. Foodborne Pathog Dis. 2009;6:417â24. DOIPubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        16. Institute of Medicine. Enhancing food safety: the role of the Food and Drug Administration. Washington: National Academy Press; 2010. p. 1â576.

Top

Cite This Article

DOI: 10.3201/eid1701.101821

Table of Contents - Volume 17, Number 1âJanuary 2011

Comments

Please use the form below to submit correspondence to the authors or contact
them at the following address:

J. Glenn Morris, Jr., Emerging Pathogens Institute, University of Florida, PO
Box 100009, Bldg 62, S Newell Dr, Gainesville, FL 32610-0009, USA

**Return Address**

**Send To**

Send To  Authors  Editors

**Comments**

  
_character(s) remaining._

**Comment submitted successfully, thank you for your feedback.**

Top

Page created: July 08, 2011

Page updated: July 08, 2011

Page reviewed: July 08, 2011

_The conclusions, findings, and opinions expressed by authors contributing to
this journal do not necessarily reflect the official position of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services, the Public Health Service, the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, or the authors' affiliated
institutions. Use of trade names is for identification only and does not imply
endorsement by any of the groups named above._

home4EID Journal

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About the Journalexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * General Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Background and Goals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Editors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Editorial Board
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Staff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Contact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Articlesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * April 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Early Release
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Past Issuesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * January 2011expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * How Safe Is Our Food?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Medscape CME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Searchexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Advanced Article Search
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Articles by Country Search
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Spotlight Topics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Article Type Search
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * EID on PubMed Central
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Subscribe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Author Resource Centerexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies and Guidelinesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Editorial Policy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Copyright Policy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Informed Consent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preprint Policy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Manuscriptexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Provide ORCiD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Complete Author Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Types of Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Manuscript Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prepare Manuscript
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Format Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Format Figures & Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Format References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Submit Manuscript
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Check Manuscript Status
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Writing Guidesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Abbreviations, Acronyms, and Initialisms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Capitalization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Geographic Designations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mathematical Modeling Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preferred Usage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Punctuation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scientific Nomenclature
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Spelling Preferences
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Units of Measure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Editorial Style Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Search Style Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Peer Reviewers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Media Related Contentexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Press & Media Information

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

#### Article Citations

Highlight and copy the desired format.

EID | Morris J. How Safe Is Our Food?. Emerg Infect Dis. 2011;17(1):126-128.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid1701.101821  
---|---  
AMA | Morris J. How Safe Is Our Food?. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_.
2011;17(1):126-128. doi:10.3201/eid1701.101821.  
APA | Morris, J. (2011). How Safe Is Our Food?. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_
, _17_ (1), 126-128. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid1701.101821.  
  
Close

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[10 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM

