Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000044.htm    
                                Description: A genital injury is an injury to male or female sex organs, mainly those outside the body. It also refers to injury in the area between the legs, called the perineum.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Genital injury

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000044.htm

# Genital injury

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A genital injury is an injury to male or female sex organs, mainly those
outside the body. It also refers to injury in the area between the legs,
called the perineum.

## Considerations

Injury to the genitals can be very painful. It may cause a lot of bleeding.
Such injury can affect the reproductive organs and the bladder and urethra.

Damage may be temporary or permanent.

## Causes

Genital injury can occur in both women and young girls. ItÂ may be caused by
placing items into the vagina. Young girls (most often less than 4 years of
age) may do this during normal exploration of the body. Objects used may
include toilet tissue, crayons, beads, pins, or buttons.

It is important to rule out sexual abuse, rape, and assault. The health care
provider should ask the girl how the object was placed there.

In men and young boys, common causes of genital injury include:

      * Having the toilet seat fall down onto the area
      * Getting the area caught in a pant zipper
      * Straddle injury: falling and landing with the legs on each side of a bar, such as a monkey bar or the middle of a bicycle

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Abdominal pain
      * Bleeding
      * Bruising
      * Change in shape of the affected area
      * Faintness
      * Foul-smelling vaginal or urethral discharge
      * Object embedded in a body opening
      * Groin pain or genital pain (can be extreme)
      * Swelling
      * Urine drainage
      * Vomiting
      * Urination that is painful or the inability to urinate
      * Open wound 

## First Aid

Keep the person calm. Be sensitive to privacy. Cover the injured area while
giving first aid.

Control bleeding by using direct pressure. Place a clean cloth or sterile
dressing on any open wounds. If the vagina is bleeding severely, put sterile
gauze or clean cloths on the area, unless a foreign body is suspected.

Apply cold compresses to help reduce swelling.

If the testicles have been injured, support them with a sling made from
towels. Place them on a padded cloth such as a diaper.

If there is an object stuck in a body opening or wound, leave it alone and
seek medical attention. Taking it out may cause more damage.

## DO NOT

DO NOT try to remove an object by yourself. Seek medical help right away.

Never volunteer your thoughts on how you think the injury happened. If you
think the injury was the result of assault or abuse, DO NOT let the person
change clothes or take a bath or shower. Seek medical help right away.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

A straddle injury is damage to the testicle or urinary tract. Get medical help
right away if there is:

      * A lot of swelling or bruising
      * Blood in the urine
      * Difficulty urinating

Seek medical help right away if there is a genital injury and:

      * Pain, bleeding, or swelling
      * A concern about sexual abuse
      * Problems urinating
      * Blood in the urine
      * Open wound
      * Large amount of swelling or bruising of the genitals or surrounding areas

## Prevention

Teach safety to young children and create a safe environment for them. Also,
keep small objects out of the reach of toddlers.

## Alternative Names

Scrotal trauma; Straddle injury; Toilet seat injury

## Images

      * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1112t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy
      * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy
      * ![Normal female anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9121t.jpg)Normal female anatomy

## References

Malaeb BS, Yi Y. Trauma to the genitourinary tract. In: Kellerman RD, Rakel
DP, eds. _Conn's Current Therapy 2019_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019;chap
1076-1079.

Shewakramani SN. Genitourinary system. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 40.

Smith TG, Coburn M. Urologic surgery. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers
BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 72.

## Review Date 10/10/2018

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Wounds and
Injuries](https://medlineplus.gov/images/WoundsandInjuries_thumb.jpg)Wounds
and Injuries _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

