

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

A-Z Index

Ã

Submit

Search

Submit

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Search Dropdown

Submit

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Emerging Infectious Disease journal ISSN: 1080-6059

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

#####  Volume 18, Number 12âDecember 2012

##### CME ACTIVITY - _Research_

###  Farm Animal Contact as Risk Factor for Transmission of Bovine-associated
_Salmonella_ Subtypes

On This Page

CME Introduction

* * *

Materials and Methods

* * *

Results

* * *

Discussion

* * *

CME Follow Up

* * *

Cite This Article

Tables

Table 1

* * *

Table 2

* * *

Table 3

* * *

Table 4

Downloads

Article

* * *

RIS [TXT - 2 KB]

Altmetric

Metric Details

**23**

citations of this article  
EID Journal Metrics on Scopus

Kevin J. Cummings![Comments to Author](/eid/content/images/icon/email.gif) ,
Lorin D. Warnick, Margaret A. Davis, Kaye Eckmann, YrjÃ¶ T. GrÃ¶hn, Karin
Hoelzer, Kathryn MacDonald, Timothy P. Root, Julie D. Siler, Suzanne M.
McGuire, Martin Wiedmann, Emily M. Wright, Shelley M. Zansky, and Thomas E.
Besser

Author affiliations:  Author affiliations: Texas A&M; University, College
Station, Texas, USA (K.J. Cummings); Cornell University, Ithaca, New York, USA
(K.J. Cummings, L.D. Warnick, Y.T. GrÃ¶hn, K. Hoelzer, J.D. Siler, M.
Wiedmann, E.M. Wright); Washington State University, Pullman, Washington, USA
(M.A. Davis, T.E. Besser); Washington State Department of Health, Olympia,
Washington, USA (K. Eckmann, K. MacDonald); New York State Department of
Health, Albany, New York, USA (T.P. Root, S.M. McGuire, S.M. Zansky)

Cite This Article

Open modal

### Introduction

![CME Logo](/eid/Content/images/CME-JAP-logo.jpg)

##  Medscape CME Activity

Medscape, LLC is pleased to provide online continuing medical education (CME)
for this journal article, allowing clinicians the opportunity to earn CME
credit.

This activity has been planned and implemented in accordance with the
Essential Areas and policies of the Accreditation Council for Continuing
Medical Education through the joint sponsorship of Medscape, LLC and Emerging
Infectious Diseases. Medscape, LLC is accredited by the ACCME to provide
continuing medical education for physicians.

Medscape, LLC designates this Journal-based CME activity for a maximum of 1
_AMA PRA Category 1 Credit(s)_ TM. Physicians should claim only the credit
commensurate with the extent of their participation in the activity.

All other clinicians completing this activity will be issued a certificate of
participation. To participate in this journal CME activity: (1) review the
learning objectives and author disclosures; (2) study the education content;
(3) take the post-test with a 70% minimum passing score and complete the
evaluation at **www.medscape.org/journal/eid**; (4) view/print certificate.

**Release date: November 14, 2012; Expiration date: November 14, 2013**

##  Learning Objectives

Upon completion of this activity, participants will be able to:

•     Analyze the epidemiology of salmonellosis.

•     Distinguish broad characteristics of patients with salmonellosis in the
current study.

•     Assess risk factors for bovine-associated salmonellosis in the current
study.

####  CME Editor

**P. Lynne Stockton, VMD, MS, ELS(D),** Technical Writer/Editor, _Emerging
Infectious Diseases. Disclosure: P. Lynne Stockton, VMD, MS, ELS(D), has
disclosed no relevant financial relationships._

####  CME Author

**Charles P. Vega, MD,** Health Sciences Clinical Professor; Residency
Director, Department of Family Medicine, University of California, Irvine.
_Disclosure: Charles P. Vega, MD, has disclosed no relevant financial
relationships._

####  Authors

_Disclosures: **Kevin J. Cummings, DVM, PhD** ; **Margaret A. Davis, DVM, MPH,
PhD** ; **M. Kaye Eckmann, BS** ; **Yrj o T. Grohn, DVM, PhD**; **Karin
Hoelzer, PhD** ; **Kathryn MacDonald, PhD, RN** ; **Timothy P. Root** ;
**Julie D. Siler** ; **Suzanne M. McGuire, RN, BSN, CCTC** ; **Emily M.
Wright** , **BS** ; **Shelley M. Zansky, PhD** ; and **Thomas E. Besser, DVM,
PhD, DACVM** , have disclosed no relevant financial relationships. **Lorin D.
Warnick, DVM, PhD** , has disclosed the following relevant financial
relationships: served as an advisor or consultant for Pfizer Animal Health.
**Martin Wiedmann, DVM** , has disclosed the following relevant financial
relationships: served as an advisor or consultant for Roka; owns stock, stock
options, or bonds from Neogen, Sample6 Technologies._

Top

### Abstract

Salmonellosis is usually associated with foodborne transmission. To identify
risk from animal contact, we compared animal exposures of case-patients
infected with bovine-associated _Salmonella_ subtypes with those of control-
patients infected with non-bovineâassociated subtypes. We used data
collected in New York and Washington, USA, from March 1, 2008, through March
1, 2010. Contact with farm animals during the 5 days before illness onset was
significantly associated with being a case-patient (odds ratio 3.2, p =
0.0008), after consumption of undercooked ground beef and unpasteurized milk
were controlled for. Contact with cattle specifically was also significantly
associated with being a case-patient (odds ratio 7.4, p = 0.0002), after food
exposures were controlled for. More cases of bovine-associated salmonellosis
in humans might result from direct contact with cattle, as opposed to
ingestion of foods of bovine origin, than previously recognized. Efforts to
control salmonellosis should include a focus on transmission routes other than
foodborne.

_Salmonella enterica_ remains a formidable public health challenge, resulting
in â1.2 million illnesses and 400 deaths annually in the United States alone
( _1_). Disease manifestations include diarrhea, fever, anorexia, abdominal
pain, vomiting, and malaise. Although clinical disease generally resolves
within 3â7 days, _Salmonella_ spp. can also produce potentially fatal
invasive infections. The incidence of human salmonellosis has not declined
over the past 15 years and is significantly higher than it was during
2006â2008 ( _2_). An estimated 94% of _Salmonella_ infections are foodborne
( _1_); common sources include undercooked eggs, poultry, beef, and pork;
unpasteurized dairy products; and raw vegetables ( _3_ _â_ _7_). Although
some studies have shown that direct contact with infected animals is a risk
factor for salmonellosis ( _8_ _,_ _9_), the foodborne route is still regarded
as the primary transmission route.

Dairy cattle are considered a key source of several _Salmonella_ serovars that
are a threat to human health, including multidrug-resistant _S_. _enterica_
serovar Newport and _S_. _enterica_ serovar Typhimurium ( _8_ _â_ _11_).
Foodborne transmission can occur through fecal contamination of beef carcasses
at the time of slaughter ( _12_) or through contamination of crops, either by
manure used as fertilizer or by manure-contaminated irrigation water ( _13_).
Milk and other dairy products pose less of a public health threat because of
commercial pasteurization, although consumption of unpasteurized dairy
products persists. Infection by direct contact is an occupational risk for
dairy farm workers and veterinarians. The most recent National Animal Health
Monitoring System Dairy Study reports that there were >75,000 dairy operations
in the United States in 2006, and the American Veterinary Medical Association
reports that there were >5,000 veterinarians engaged either predominantly or
exclusively in food animal practice as of 2010. Persons who interact with
dairy cattle in public settings, such as open farms, petting zoos, and county
or state fairs, are also at risk for salmonellosis through direct exposure (
_8_ _,_ _9_ _,_ _14_ _,_ _15_).

Our objective was to identify significant risk factors for salmonellosis
caused by bovine-associated _Salmonella_ subtypes (including those within the
Newport and Typhimurium serovars) by using the caseâcase study design (
_16_). We specifically evaluated the role of direct animal contact as a
potential route of transmission.

### Materials and Methods

##### Study Population

This caseâcase study was conducted by using culture-confirmed human
salmonellosis cases reported in targeted geographic areas in the states of New
York and Washington, USA. Specimens were collected from March 1, 2008, through
March 1, 2010.

##### New York State

Public Health Law in New York requires laboratories and physicians to report
all salmonellosis cases to local health departments and to submit isolates to
the New York State Department of Health (NYSDOH) Wadsworth Center Public
Health Laboratory for diagnostic confirmation and speciation. The local health
departments submit all case information, including laboratory data and
questionnaire results, to the NYSDOH by a secure electronic data collection
system. Within the FoodNet (www.cdc.gov/foodnet/) catchment area of the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Emerging Infections Program,
surveillance officers actively monitor clinical microbiology laboratories and
contact local health departments to ascertain all laboratory-confirmed
salmonellosis cases, and they review case reports for accuracy and
completeness. This catchment area includes 34 counties in the Albany, Buffalo,
and Rochester areas of New York, representing â4.3 million residents (22% of
the total state population).

##### Washington State

As in New York, salmonellosis is reportable in the state of Washington, and
clinical laboratories are required to submit all isolates to the Washington
State Department of Health (WSDOH) Public Health Laboratories for further
characterization. County health departments submit all case information to the
WSDOH Communicable Disease Epidemiology Unit. The 6 participating counties in
Washington were King, Pierce, Snohomish, Spokane, Whatcom, and Yakima. These
included 3 of the most populous counties (King, Pierce, and Snohomish) and 2
counties with the highest concentrations of dairy cattle (Whatcom and Yakima)
in Washington. Spokane County comprises an urban population in addition to
rural and farming communities. The 6 participating counties represent â4.3
million residents (65% of the total state population).

##### Laboratory Methods

In New York, serotyping and pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) were
performed on all _Salmonella_ FoodNet isolates received by the NYSDOH during
the study period. Typing data were forwarded to Cornell University (Ithaca,
NY, USA) for PFGE pattern comparison by BioNumerics software (Applied Maths
Inc., Austin, TX, USA). Confirmed _Salmonella_ isolates of bovine origin,
obtained either from clinical samples submitted to the Cornell University
Animal Health Diagnostic Center or from field study samples collected from
clinically ill and asymptomatic dairy cattle, were sent to the US Department
of Agriculture, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, National
Veterinary Services Laboratories (Ames, IA, USA) for serotyping by standard
protocols. PFGE subtyping of bovine isolates was performed in the Food Science
Laboratory at Cornell University. The standard CDC PulseNet protocol ( _17_)
was used for subtyping all study isolates.

In Washington, serotyping and PFGE were performed on all human clinical
isolates submitted to the WSDOH as described for New York. Bovine isolates,
obtained either from clinical samples submitted to the Washington Animal
Disease Diagnostic Laboratory or from samples collected during dairy cattle
field studies, were also sent to the National Veterinary Services Laboratories
for serotyping. PFGE subtyping of bovine isolates was performed at Washington
State University, again by using the standard CDC PulseNet protocol.

##### Questionnaire

As part of the routine investigation of foodborne _Salmonella_ infections,
trained interviewers from local health departments in both states administered
a standardized questionnaire to each patient by telephone. The NYSDOH
_Salmonella_ questionnaire was adapted from a previous version used for
investigating all cases of foodborne infection. The standard WSDOH
questionnaire was supplemented with an additional set of questions to ensure
completeness of exposure data collection and to better align Washington data
with New York data. Patient identification data were removed from each dataset
before being transferred to the university research group in the respective
state. Data collected in each state included demographic information, clinical
features, and exposure history during the 5 days before disease onset.
Exposure data included animal contacts, food history, food hygiene practices,
water use for drinking and recreation, health care or daycare exposures, and
travel history. After data collection had ended, both datasets were compiled
at Cornell University for analysis.

##### Case-Patients and Control-Patients

Eligible cases included _Salmonella_ spp.âpositive patients from the NYS
FoodNet catchment area and the 6 participating Washington counties that were
identified during the study period. Patients were excluded if they were
associated with an obvious outbreak (as noted by the state health departments)
or if they had a typhoidal _Salmonella_ infection (either Typhi or Paratyphi
A). For the caseâcontrol analysis, case-patients were defined as patients
infected with _Salmonella_ isolates that matched contemporary bovine isolates
from the respective state by serovar and PFGE pattern. Control-patients were
defined as patients infected with _Salmonella_ isolates that were not
associated with cattle, according to those criteria. Specifically, all
patients infected with _S_. _enterica_ serovar Dublin were classified as case-
patients because this serovar is host-adapted to cattle ( _18_). Patients
infected with 6 other serovars (Newport, Typhimurium, Infantis, 4,5,12:i:-,
Agona, and Montevideo) were classified as potential case-patients because of
the importance of these serovars in bovine and human hosts.

According to a recent comprehensive study on the incidence of salmonellosis
among dairy herds in New York and other northeastern states, the first 5
serovars just mentioned were among the leading serovars shed by dairy cattle
with clinical _Salmonella_ infections ( _19_), and Montevideo is consistently
one of the most prevalent serovars shed by asymptomatic cattle ( _20_). All 6
are among the top 20 serovars isolated from human patients with laboratory-
confirmed salmonellosis in the United States ( _21_). For patients infected
with one of the aforementioned serovars, PFGE patterns from the human isolates
were compared with those from cattle. To be considered bovine associated, an
isolate had to have a PFGE pattern indistinguishable from that of isolates
obtained from >2 cattle in the same state from March 1, 2007, through March 1,
2010; patients infected with such isolates were thus classified as case-
patients. Human isolates that differed from the most similar bovine isolate by
1â3 visible bands were excluded from the analysis, as were human isolates
with a PFGE pattern matching that of just 1 bovine animal. Patients infected
with isolates that differed from the most similar bovine isolate by >4 visible
bands were classified as control-patients.

Patients infected with _Salmonella_ serovars other than those previously
listed were classified as control-patients if the serovar was not detected in
cattle in the same state during that time frame. If the serovar was detected
in cattle, the human isolate had to differ from the most similar bovine
isolate by >4 visible bands in order for that patient to be considered a
control-patient; otherwise, the human isolate was excluded from the analysis.
A total of 422 bovine isolates from New York and 447 bovine isolates from
Washington were used for PFGE pattern comparison.

##### Data Analysis

Data were imported into a commercially available statistical software program
(SAS, version 9.2; SAS Institute Inc., Cary, NC, USA) for variable coding and
analysis. Age was converted into a categorical variable (<5, 5â12, 13â20,
21â40, 41â60, and >60 years of age). Animal, food, and other exposures
were analyzed as dichotomous variables (yes/no). The variables âfarm animal
contactâ and âbovine contactâ were created to most effectively capture
data from 2 state health department questionnaires that were not identical. In
the New York dataset, farm animal contact was considered âyesâ if the
patient reported an occupation of animal farming or a history of farm animal
contact; bovine contact was considered âyesâ if the patient specified
cattle as the type of farm animal. In the Washington dataset, farm animal
contact was considered âyesâ if the patient reported a history of living
or working on a dairy or other farm type or reported a history of contact with
cattle, sheep, goats, horses, or pigs; bovine contact was considered âyesâ
if the patient specified cattle as the type of farm animal.

Analysis was performed to compare exposures between case-patients and control-
patients. Univariable descriptive analysis was performed on all explanatory
variables. Bivariable analysis with the Ï2 test was used to determine whether
each variable was independently associated with case or control status.
Multivariable logistic regression models were used to identify risk factors
for infection with bovine-associated subtypes; case or control status was used
as the dichotomous outcome variable. Initial selection of variables was based
on the bivariable analysis screening (p<0.25), and a backward elimination
approach was used to identify a final multivariable model; values of p<0.05
were considered significant. Relevant 2-way interaction terms (involving
exposure variables retained in the final model, demographic variables, and
state) were also investigated for significance within each model. Consumption
of undercooked ground beef and unpasteurized milk in the 5 days before disease
onset were included in each model as potential confounders. The population
attributable fraction (PAF), defined as the proportion of disease in a
population that can be attributed to a given exposure, was calculated for
variables retained in each model by using the formula PAF = P(ORadj â
1)/ORadj (where P = the proportion of case-patients exposed to the risk factor
and ORadj = the adjusted odds ratio for that factor) ( _22_).

### Results

From March 1, 2008, though March 1, 2010, the NYSDOH received nontyphoidal
_Salmonella_ isolates from 835 patients within the NYS FoodNet catchment area.
According to our criteria, 40 (4.8%) of these were classified as case-patients
and 356 (42.6%) as control-patients. Among case-patients, 20 (50.0%) were
female; among control-patients, 215 (60.4%) were female. The median age among
case-patients was 31.5 years, whereas that among control-patients was 31
years. Typhimurium was the most common serovar among case-patients (67.5%),
and Enteritidis and Typhimurium were equally predominant among control-
patients (10.1%; Table 1).

During the study period, 562 patients with nontyphoidal salmonellosis were
identified in the 6 participating Washington counties. According to our
criteria, 87 (15.5%) of these were classified as case-patients and 428 (76.2%)
as control-patients. Among case-patients, 53 (60.9%) were female; among
control-patients, 229 (53.5%) were female. The median age among case-patients
was 28 years, whereas that among control-patients was 33 years. The most
common serovar among case-patients was Typhimurium (51.7%), and the most
common serovar among control-patients was Enteritidis (40.4%; Table 2).

The datasets from each state were combined to yield a total of 127 case-
patients and 784 control-patients. Bivariable analysis indicated that more
case-patients (11.0%) than control-patients (3.8%) reported a history of farm
animal contact during the 5 days before disease onset (p = 0.0004). More case-
patients (6.3%) than control-patients (1.0%) also reported a specific history
of bovine contact during the 5 days before illness (p<0.0001). Attendance at
an open farm/petting zoo/fair was more common (p = 0.05) among case-patients
(11.8%) than control-patients (7.0%), and more case-patients (12.6%) than
control-patients (6.5%) reported a history of contact with animal manure (p =
0.01). Fewer case-patients (3.1%) than control-patients (13.9%) reported a
history of international travel before illness (p = 0.0006). Case-patients and
control-patients did not differ significantly with respect to sex, age group,
eating undercooked ground beef, or drinking unpasteurized milk.

Multivariable logistic regression analysis showed that a history of farm
animal contact during the 5 days before disease onset was significantly
associated with being a case-patient (odds ratio [OR] 3.2, 95% CI 1.6â6.4, p
= 0.0008), after consumption of undercooked ground beef and unpasteurized milk
was accounted for (Table 3). A specific history of bovine contact during the 5
days before illness was also significantly associated with being a case-
patient (OR, 7.4, 95% CI 2.6â20.9, p = 0.0002), according to estimates from
a separate logistic regression model that also controlled for those food
exposures (Table 4). International travel was negatively associated with being
a case-patient in each of the models. No significant interaction was found
between farm animal/bovine contact and state, sex, or age group in the
respective models. The PAF, applied here as the proportion of _Salmonella_
infections among the source population of laboratory-confirmed cases that can
be attributed to a certain exposure, was calculated to be 7.6% for farm animal
contact and 5.4% for bovine contact in particular.

To perform a sensitivity analysis for testing the effect of our strict case
definition, we repeated multivariable logistic regression models under 2
extreme scenarios; all potential case-patients that were excluded (because the
isolate differed from the most similar bovine isolate by 1â3 visible bands
or because its PFGE pattern matched that of just 1 bovine animal) served
alternatively as case-patients (scenario 1) and control-patients (scenario 2).
The parameter estimates and ORs from these hypothetical models were comparable
to those obtained from our original analyses (the ORs under scenarios 1 and 2
were 3.2 and 2.3 for farm animal contact, 6.1 and 4.0 for bovine contact,
respectively).

### Discussion

The caseâcase study design proposed by McCarthy and Giesecke is an
adaptation of the conventional caseâcontrol approach ( _16_). It has been
used to study risk factors and clinical features associated with particular
subtypes of _Salmonella_ spp. ( _8_ _,_ _23_ _â_ _26_), _Campylobacter_ spp.
( _27_ _,_ _28_), and _Clostridium difficile_ ( _29_). One of its main
advantages is the removal of selection bias imposed by the surveillance
system; case-patients and control-patients were subjected to the same
selection process in order to be detected by a state health department as a
laboratory-confirmed case. Another advantage is the negation of recall bias (a
form of information bias); because case-patients and control-patients had
salmonellosis, their recall of exposures should have been similarly affected
by attitudes regarding causation.

A potential limitation of the caseâcase study design is that the control-
patients might not represent the exposure prevalence in the source population
on account of the unique exposures that led them to become infected. However,
we believe that we addressed this issue by including a diverse array of
serovars and PFGE types in the control group, assuming that their associated
exposures were presumably also diverse and thus more representative of the
total spectrum of exposures associated with nonbovine _Salmonella_ strains.
Another possible drawback of this study design is that case-patients and
control-patients share a certain subset of exposures that pose a risk for
_Salmonella_ infections in general; such exposures will therefore remain
unidentified or at least be underestimated as risk factors. Although this
study design precludes the study of general risk factors for salmonellosis, it
is useful for investigating exposures that are serovar or subtype specific.

Other studies have found an association between salmonellosis and having
previous contact with either cattle or a farm environment ( _8_ _,_ _9_ _,_
_30_). Our study investigated this association with a caseâcase approach
that used a strict case definition. Another strength of this study was the use
of sporadic cases of salmonellosis rather than cases associated with
outbreaks. Insight regarding the epidemiology of sporadic _Salmonella_
infections has traditionally been limited because specific sources of enteric
illness are seldom identified when not occurring as part of an outbreak.

Direct contact with dairy cattle or their environment during the 5 days before
illness onset was significantly associated with salmonellosis caused by a
bovine-matched subtype in New York and Washington. Because there was no
interaction between state and the animal contact variables in the models, we
concluded that the effect estimate was consistent across the 2 states. The ORs
for farm animal contact and specific bovine contact in each state were also
similar to those obtained from analysis of the combined dataset (data not
shown). In addition, our sensitivity analysis led us to decide that we still
would have reached the same conclusions with modified case criteria. These
results have important implications for dairy farm workers and their families,
veterinarians and veterinary staff, and those who interact with dairy cattle
in public settings.

Although attendance at an open farm/petting zoo/fair was not significantly
associated with being a case-patient in this study, it is logical to believe
that visiting such a facility might increase the risk for salmonellosis, on
the basis of our other findings. _S. enterica_ is transmitted primarily by the
fecalâoral route. Direct contact with the feces of infected cattle can occur
through feeding, petting, or otherwise handling them; contaminated clothing or
footwear, animal bedding, barriers, or other environmental surfaces can also
be sources of infection ( _15_ _,_ _31_). This threat is underscored by the
recent finding that the median duration of fecal _Salmonella_ shedding
following clinical disease among dairy cattle is 50 days ( _32_).

The negative association between recent international travel and salmonellosis
caused by a bovine-matched subtype was anticipated. Although travel outside
the United States is a well-known risk factor for _Salmonella_ infections (
_33_) (observed in a significantly higher proportion of control-patients in
this study), it would not be expected to have an association with
salmonellosis caused specifically by subtypes shared by dairy cattle in New
York and Washington.

The percentage of _Salmonella_ infections in the United States that are
foodborne was recently estimated at 94% ( _1_). The results of our statistical
analyses suggest that this percentage might be an overestimate, at least for
bovine-associated _Salmonella_ subtypes, although our PAF results (which also
take into account the frequency of exposure) are more consistent with this
estimate. It also must be noted that the effect of animal exposure observed in
New York and Washington might not be representative of the rest of the
country. Nevertheless, more human infections originating from bovine sources
might result from direct contact with cattle (as opposed to foods of bovine
origin) than previously recognized. Clear evidence for the role of direct farm
animal contact as a source of human salmonellosis indicates that it is
imperative for _Salmonella_ control efforts to include a focus on transmission
routes other than foodborne. The efficacy and public health impact of
addressing nonfoodborne transmission of _Salmonella_ spp. have been
demonstrated by studies of direct contact transmission from pet turtles to
humans, particularly children. In response to studies that established turtles
as an important source of human salmonellosis ( _34_ _,_ _35_), federal
legislation in 1975 prohibited the sale and distribution of turtles <4 inches
in carapace length. Still in effect today, this ban coincided with an 18%
reduction in _Salmonella_ infections among children 1â9 years of age (
_36_).

A number of measures can be taken to minimize the likelihood of becoming
infected with _Salmonella_ spp. from direct contact with farm animals. Washing
hands with soap and water is a simple yet highly protective step that can be
taken after contact with animals or feces ( _15_ _,_ _37_). Children <5 years
of age, elderly adults, and immunocompromised persons are at increased risk
for invasive salmonellosis ( _38_ _,_ _39_) and thus should pay special
attention to hygiene or avoid certain animal contacts altogether.
Veterinarians should teach cattle owners and farm employees to wash well after
work or before eating, to disinfect boots and equipment, and to keep coveralls
out of the house. If treating infected cattle, veterinarians must specifically
counsel their clients about the risk for zoonoses. In particular, high-risk
groups should avoid contact with infected cattle. Veterinarians should
instruct their staff members to protect themselves by using appropriate
infection control procedures ( _40_), especially if working with livestock.
Increased physician awareness of the role of direct farm animal contact in
transmitting _Salmonella_ spp. and other enteric zoonotic pathogens is
likewise needed. Physicians should educate their patients, particularly those
at increased risk for severe disease, regarding the potential threat posed by
animal contact and the importance of hand hygiene after such contact. Patients
with diarrheal illness should be questioned about their exposures to cattle,
farm environments, and other animal species. It is also essential that those
who operate open farms and other animal exhibits adhere to current guidelines
by equipping such areas with handwashing facilities, preventing food and drink
in these areas, maintaining an adequate cleaning and disinfection protocol,
and providing visitors with educational materials on disease prevention (
_37_). In conclusion, prevention of salmonellosis should include a focus on
safe animal contact in addition to food safety measures.

Dr Cummings is an assistant professor of epidemiology at Texas A&M University
College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences. His research focuses
on diseases of importance to public health, in particular _Salmonella_ spp.
and other foodborne pathogens.

Top

### Acknowledgments

We thank the local health departments in New York and Washington that
administered questionnaires and submitted case information during the study.
In particular, we acknowledge the assistance of Laurie Stewart, David Harrowe,
Amy Blanchard, Dorothy MacEachern, Joni Hensley, and Marianne Patnode.

This project was supported in part by the Cornell University and Washington
State University Zoonoses Research Units of the Food and Waterborne Diseases
Integrated Research Network, funded by the National Institute of Allergy and
Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, under contract nos.
N01-AI-30054 and N01-AI-30055, respectively.

Top

### References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. Scallan  E, Hoekstra  RM, Angulo  FJ, Tauxe  RV, Widdowson  MA, Roy  SL,  Foodborne illness acquired in the United Statesâmajor pathogens. Emerg Infect Dis. 2011;17:7â15 .PubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Vital signs: incidence and trends of infection with pathogens transmitted commonly through foodâFoodborne Diseases Active Surveillance Network, 10 U.S. sites, 1996â2010. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2011;60:749â55 .PubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Multistate outbreak of _Salmonella_ serotype Typhimurium infections associated with drinking unpasteurized milkâIllinois, Indiana, Ohio, and Tennessee, 2002â2003. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2003;52:613â5 .PubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Multistate outbreak of _Salmonella_ Typhimurium infections associated with eating ground beefâUnited States, 2004. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2006;55:180â2 .PubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Multistate outbreak of _Salmonella_ infections associated with frozen pot piesâUnited States, 2007. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2008;57:1277â80 .PubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Outbreak of multidrug-resistant _Salmonella enterica_ serotype Newport infections associated with consumption of unpasteurized Mexican-style aged cheeseâIllinois, March 2006âApril 2007. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2008;57:432â5 .PubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Outbreak of _Salmonella_ serotype Saintpaul infections associated with multiple raw produce itemsâUnited States, 2008. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2008;57:929â34 .PubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8. Gupta  A, Fontana  J, Crowe  C, Bolstorff  B, Stout  A, Van Duyne  S,  Emergence of multidrug-resistant _Salmonella enterica_ serotype Newport infections resistant to expanded-spectrum cephalosporins in the United States. J Infect Dis. 2003;188:1707â16 and. DOIPubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9. Karon  AE, Archer  JR, Sotir  MJ, Monson  TA, Kazmierczak  JJ. Human multidrug-resistant _Salmonella_ Newport infections, Wisconsin, 2003â2005. Emerg Infect Dis. 2007;13:1777â80 and. DOIPubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10. Dechet  AM, Scallan  E, Gensheimer  K, Hoekstra  R, Gunderman-King  J, Lockett  J,  Outbreak of multidrug-resistant _Salmonella enterica_ serotype Typhimurium definitive type 104 infection linked to commercial ground beef, northeastern United States, 2003â2004. Clin Infect Dis. 2006;42:747â52 and. DOIPubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11. Varma  JK, Marcus  R, Stenzel  SA, Hanna  SS, Gettner  S, Anderson  BJ,  Highly resistant _Salmonella_ Newport-MDRAmpC transmitted through the domestic US food supply: a FoodNet caseâcontrol study of sporadic _Salmonella_ Newport infections, 2002â2003. J Infect Dis. 2006;194:222â30 and. DOIPubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12. Wells  SJ, Fedorka-Cray  PJ, Dargatz  DA, Ferris  K, Green  A. Fecal shedding of _Salmonella_ spp. by dairy cows on farm and at cull cow markets. J Food Prot. 2001;64:3â11 .PubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13. Hanning  IB, Nutt  JD, Ricke  SC. Salmonellosis outbreaks in the United States due to fresh produce: sources and potential intervention measures. Foodborne Pathog Dis. 2009;6:635â48 and. DOIPubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        14. Bender  JB, Shulman  SA. Animals in Public Contact subcommittee, National Association of State Public Health Veterinarians. Reports of zoonotic disease outbreaks associated with animal exhibits and availability of recommendations for preventing zoonotic disease transmission from animals to people in such settings. J Am Vet Med Assoc. 2004;224:1105â9 and. DOIPubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        15. Smith  KE, Stenzel  SA, Bender  JB, Wagstrom  E, Soderlund  D, Leano  FT,  Outbreaks of enteric infections caused by multiple pathogens associated with calves at a farm day camp. Pediatr Infect Dis J. 2004;23:1098â104 .PubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        16. McCarthy  N, Giesecke  J. Caseâcase comparisons to study causation of common infectious diseases. Int J Epidemiol. 1999;28:764â8 and. DOIPubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        17. Ribot  EM, Fair  MA, Gautom  R, Cameron  DN, Hunter  SB, Swaminathan  B,  Standardization of pulsed-field gel electrophoresis protocols for the subtyping of _Escherichia coli_ O157:H7, _Salmonella_ , and _Shigella_ for PulseNet. Foodborne Pathog Dis. 2006;3:59â67 and. DOIPubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        18. Uzzau  S, Brown  DJ, Wallis  T, Rubino  S, Leori  G, Bernard  S,  Host adapted serotypes of _Salmonella enterica._ Epidemiol Infect. 2000;125:229â55 and. DOIPubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        19. Cummings  KJ, Warnick  LD, Alexander  KA, Cripps  CJ, Grohn  YT, McDonough  PL,  The incidence of salmonellosis among dairy herds in the northeastern United States. J Dairy Sci. 2009;92:3766â74 and. DOIPubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        20. Centers for Epidemiology and Animal Health. National Animal Health Monitoring System (NAHMS) Dairy 2007: _Salmonella_ and _Campylobacter_ on U.S. dairy operations, 1996â2007. Washington (DC): US Department of Agriculture; 2009.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        21. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. _Salmonella_ surveillance: annual summary, 2006. Atlanta: US Department of Health and Human Services; 2008.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        22. Kleinbaum  DG, Kupper  LL, Morgenstern  H. Epidemiologic research: principles and quantitative methods. Belmont (CA): Lifetime Learning Publications; 1982.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        23. Van Beneden  CA, Keene  WE, Strang  RA, Werker  DH, King  AS, Mahon  B,  Multinational outbreak of _Salmonella enterica_ serotype Newport infections due to contaminated alfalfa sprouts. JAMA. 1999;281:158â62 and. DOIPubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        24. Kist  MJ, Freitag  S. Serovar specific risk factors and clinical features of _Salmonella enterica_ ssp. _enterica_ serovar Enteritidis: a study in south-west Germany. Epidemiol Infect. 2000;124:383â92 and. DOIPubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        25. Voetsch  AC, Poole  C, Hedberg  CW, Hoekstra  RM, Ryder  RW, Weber  DJ,  Analysis of the FoodNet caseâcontrol study of sporadic _Salmonella_ serotype Enteritidis infections using persons infected with other _Salmonella_ serotypes as the comparison group. Epidemiol Infect. 2009;137:408â16 and. DOIPubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        26. Aiken  AM, Lane  C, Adak  GK. Risk of _Salmonella_ infection with exposure to reptiles in England, 2004â2007. Euro Surveill. 2010;15:19581 .PubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        27. Smith  KE, Besser  JM, Hedberg  CW, Leano  FT, Bender  JB, Wicklund  JH,  Quinolone-resistant _Campylobacter jejuni_ infections in Minnesota, 1992â1998. N Engl J Med. 1999;340:1525â32 and. DOIPubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        28. Gillespie  IA, O'Brien  SJ, Frost  JA, Adak  GK, Horby  P, Swan  AV,  A caseâcase comparison of _Campylobacter coli_ and _Campylobacter jejuni_ infection: a tool for generating hypotheses. Emerg Infect Dis. 2002;8:937â42 and. DOIPubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        29. Morgan  OW, Rodrigues  B, Elston  T, Verlander  NQ, Brown  DF, Brazier  J,  Clinical severity of _Clostridium difficile_ PCR ribotype 027: a caseâcase study. PLoS One. 2008;3:e1812.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        30. Besser  TE, Goldoft  M, Pritchett  LC, Khakhria  R, Hancock  DD, Rice  DH,  Multiresistant _Salmonella_ Typhimurium DT104 infections of humans and domestic animals in the Pacific Northwest of the United States. Epidemiol Infect. 2000;124:193â200 and. DOIPubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        31. Steinmuller  N, Demma  L, Bender  JB, Eidson  M, Angulo  FJ. Outbreaks of enteric disease associated with animal contact: not just a foodborne problem anymore. Clin Infect Dis. 2006;43:1596â602 and. DOIPubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        32. Cummings  KJ, Warnick  LD, Alexander  KA, Cripps  CJ, Grohn  YT, James  KL,  The duration of fecal _Salmonella_ shedding following clinical disease among dairy cattle in the northeastern USA. Prev Vet Med. 2009;92:134â9 and. DOIPubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        33. Johnson  LR, Gould  LH, Dunn  JR, Berkelman  R, Mahon  BE. FoodNet Travel Working Group. _Salmonella_ infections associated with international travel: a Foodborne Diseases Active Surveillance Network (FoodNet) study. Foodborne Pathog Dis. 2011;8:1031â7 and. DOIPubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        34. Altman  R, Gorman  JC, Bernhardt  LL, Goldfield  M. Turtle-associated salmonellosis. II. The relationship of pet turtles to salmonellosis in children in New Jersey. Am J Epidemiol. 1972;95:518â20 .PubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        35. Lamm  SH, Taylor  A Jr, Gangarosa  EJ, Anderson  HW, Young  W, Clark  MH,  Turtle-associated salmonellosis. I. An estimation of the magnitude of the problem in the United States, 1970â1971. Am J Epidemiol. 1972;95:511â7 .PubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        36. Cohen  ML, Potter  M, Pollard  R, Feldman  RA. Turtle-associated salmonellosis in the United States. Effect of public health action, 1970 to 1976. JAMA. 1980;243:1247â9 and. DOIPubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        37. National Association of State Public Health Veterinarians, Inc., Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Compendium of measures to prevent disease associated with animals in public settings, 2011: National Association of State Public Health Veterinarians, Inc. MMWR Recomm Rep. 2011;60:1â24 .PubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        38. Arshad  MM, Wilkins  MJ, Downes  FP, Rahbar  MH, Erskine  RJ, Boulton  ML,  Epidemiologic attributes of invasive non-typhoidal _Salmonella_ infections in Michigan, 1995â2001. Int J Infect Dis. 2008;12:176â82 and. DOIPubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        39. Jones  TF, Ingram  LA, Cieslak  PR, Vugia  DJ, Tobin-D'Angelo  M, Hurd  S,  Salmonellosis outcomes differ substantially by serotype. J Infect Dis. 2008;198:109â14 and. DOIPubMed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        40. Scheftel  JM, Elchos  BL, Cherry  B, DeBess  EE, Hopkins  SG, Levine  JF,  Compendium of veterinary standard precautions for zoonotic disease prevention in veterinary personnel: National Association of State Public Health Veterinarians, Veterinary Infection Control Committee 2010. J Am Vet Med Assoc. 2010;237:1403â22 and. DOIPubMed

Top

##### Tables

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *  **Table 1**.  Distribution of _Salmonella_ serovars among 835 patients, New York, USA, March 1, 2008-March 1, 2010 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Table 2**.  Distribution of _Salmonella_ serovars among 562 patients, Washington, USA, March 1, 2008-March 1, 2010 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Table 3**. Association between infection with a bovine-associated _Salmonella_ subtype and farm animal contact, New York and Washington, USA, March 1, 2008âMarch 1, 2010 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Table 4**. Association between infection with a bovine-associated _Salmonella_ subtype and bovine contact, New York and Washington, USA, March 1, 2008âMarch 1, 2010 

Top

### Follow Up

##  Earning CME Credit

To obtain credit, you should first read the journal article. After reading the
article, you should be able to answer the following, related, multiple-choice
questions. To complete the questions (with a minimum 70% passing score) and
earn continuing medical education (CME) credit, please go to
**www.medscape.org/journal/eid**. Credit cannot be obtained for tests
completed on paper, although you may use the worksheet below to keep a record
of your answers. You must be a registered user on Medscape.org. If you are not
registered on Medscape.org, please click on the New Users: Free Registration
link on the left hand side of the website to register. Only one answer is
correct for each question. Once you successfully answer all post-test
questions you will be able to view and/or print your certificate. For
questions regarding the content of this activity, contact the accredited
provider, CME@medscape.net. For technical assistance, contact CME@webmd.net.
American Medical Association's Physician's Recognition Award (AMA PRA) credits
are accepted in the US as evidence of participation in CME activities. For
further information on this award, please refer to http://www.ama-
assn.org/ama/pub/category/2922.html. The AMA has determined that physicians
not licensed in the US who participate in this CME activity are eligible for
_AMA PRA Category 1 Credits_ ™. Through agreements that the AMA has made with
agencies in some countries, AMA PRA credit may be acceptable as evidence of
participation in CME activities. If you are not licensed in the US, please
complete the questions online, print the certificate and present it to your
national medical association for review.

**Article Title:  
Farm Animal Contact as Risk Factor for Transmission of Bovine-associated
_Salmonella_ Subtypes**

##  CME Questions

**1\. You are seeing a 40-year-old woman with a 2-day history of diarrhea,
fever, and abdominal pain. Initial results from a stool culture demonstrate
_Salmonella_ species. What should you consider regarding the epidemiology of
_Salmonella_ infections?**

A.         The incidence of _Salmonella_ infections has gradually declined
over the past 15 years

B.         Approximately half of _Salmonella_ infections are due to
contaminated food

C.        Fecal contamination of beef carcasses at the time of slaughter may
result in foodborne transmission of _Salmonella_

D.        Milk is an even more important means of transmission of _Salmonella_
than is meat

**2\. Which of the following statements regarding characteristics of cases and
controls in the current study is most accurate?**

A.         The average age of patients was slightly over 30 years

B.         There were as many cases with bovine-associated _Salmonella_ as
there were controls with non-bovine-associated _Salmonella_

C.        The most common serovar among cases was Enteritidis

D.        The most common serovar among controls was Typhimurium

**3\. You take this patient 's history for possible exposure to _Salmonella_.
Which of the following factors was most significantly associated with bovine-
associated _Salmonella_? **

A.         Consuming undercooked ground beef

B.         Contact with farm animals

C.        Drinking unpasteurized milk

D.        International travel

**4\. The patient confirms that she has had some exposure to animals. Which of
the following factors was most important in promoting an increased risk for
bovine-associated _Salmonella_ in the current study?**

A.         Attendance at a petting zoo or animal fair

B.         Contact with animal manure

C.        Working in veterinarian's office

D.        Exposure to cows specifically during the past 5 days

##

##  Activity Evaluation

**1\. The activity supported the learning objectives.**  
  
---  
  
Strongly Disagree

|

|

|

|

Strongly Agree  
  
1

|

2

|

3

|

4

|

5  
  
**2\. The material was organized clearly for learning to occur.**  
  
Strongly Disagree

|

|

|

|

Strongly Agree  
  
1

|

2

|

3

|

4

|

5  
  
**3\. The content learned from this activity will impact my practice.**  
  
Strongly Disagree

|

|

|

|

Strongly Agree  
  
1

|

2

|

3

|

4

|

5  
  
**4\. The activity was presented objectively and free of commercial bias.**  
  
Strongly Disagree

|

|

|

|

Strongly Agree  
  
1

|

2

|

3

|

4

|

5  
  
Top

Cite This Article

DOI: 10.3201/eid1812.110831

##### Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * More Medscape CME Articles

Table of Contents - Volume 18, Number 12âDecember 2012

Comments

Please use the form below to submit correspondence to the authors or contact
them at the following address:

Kevin J. Cummings, Department of Veterinary Integrative Biosciences, College
of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, Texas A&M University, 4458
TAMU, College Station, TX 77843-4458, USA

**Return Address**

**Send To**

Send To  Authors  Editors

**Comments**

  
_character(s) remaining._

**Comment submitted successfully, thank you for your feedback.**

Top

Page created: November 20, 2012

Page updated: November 20, 2012

Page reviewed: November 20, 2012

_The conclusions, findings, and opinions expressed by authors contributing to
this journal do not necessarily reflect the official position of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services, the Public Health Service, the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, or the authors' affiliated
institutions. Use of trade names is for identification only and does not imply
endorsement by any of the groups named above._

home4EID Journal

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About the Journalexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * General Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Background and Goals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Editors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Editorial Board
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Staff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Contact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Articlesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * April 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Early Release
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Past Issuesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * December 2012expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Farm Animal Contact as Risk Factor for Transmission of Bovine-associated Salmonella Subtypesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Table 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Table 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Table 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Table 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Medscape CME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Searchexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Advanced Article Search
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Articles by Country Search
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Spotlight Topics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Article Type Search
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * EID on PubMed Central
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Subscribe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Author Resource Centerexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies and Guidelinesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Editorial Policy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Copyright Policy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Informed Consent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preprint Policy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Manuscriptexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Provide ORCiD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Complete Author Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Types of Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Manuscript Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prepare Manuscript
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Format Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Format Figures & Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Format References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Submit Manuscript
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Check Manuscript Status
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Writing Guidesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Abbreviations, Acronyms, and Initialisms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Capitalization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Geographic Designations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mathematical Modeling Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preferred Usage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Punctuation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scientific Nomenclature
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Spelling Preferences
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Units of Measure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Editorial Style Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Search Style Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Peer Reviewers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Media Related Contentexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Press & Media Information

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

#### Article Citations

Highlight and copy the desired format.

EID | Cummings KJ, Warnick LD, Davis MA, Eckmann K, GrÃ¶hn YT, Hoelzer K, et
al. Farm Animal Contact as Risk Factor for Transmission of Bovine-associated
Salmonella Subtypes. Emerg Infect Dis. 2012;18(12):1929-1936.
https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid1812.110831  
---|---  
AMA | Cummings KJ, Warnick LD, Davis MA, et al. Farm Animal Contact as Risk
Factor for Transmission of Bovine-associated Salmonella Subtypes. _Emerging
Infectious Diseases_. 2012;18(12):1929-1936. doi:10.3201/eid1812.110831.  
APA | Cummings, K. J., Warnick, L. D., Davis, M. A., Eckmann, K., GrÃ¶hn, Y.
T., Hoelzer, K....Besser, T. E. (2012). Farm Animal Contact as Risk Factor for
Transmission of Bovine-associated Salmonella Subtypes. _Emerging Infectious
Diseases_ , _18_ (12), 1929-1936. https://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid1812.110831.  
  
Close

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[10 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM

