Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007645.htm    
                                Description: Surgery that involves a cut (incision) in the skin can lead to a wound infection after surgery. Most surgical wound infections show up within the first 30 days after surgery.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Surgical wound infection - treatment

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007645.htm

# Surgical wound infection - treatment

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Surgery that involves a cut (incision) in the skin can lead to a wound
infection after surgery. Most surgical wound infections show up within the
first 30 days after surgery.

Surgical wound infections may have pus draining from them and can be red,
painful or hot to touch. You might have a fever and feel sick.

## Causes

Surgical wounds can become infected by:

      * Germs that are already on your skin that spread to the surgical wound
      * Germs that are inside your body or from the organ on which the surgery was performed
      * Germs that are in the environment around you such as infected surgical instruments or on the hands of the health care provider.

You are more at risk for a surgical wound infection if you:

      * Have poorly controlled diabetes
      * Have problems with your immune system
      * Are overweight or obese
      * Are a smoker
      * Take corticosteroids (for example, prednisone)
      * Have surgery that lasts longer than 2 hours 

There are different levels of wound infections:

      * Superficial -- the infection is in the skin area only
      * Deep -- the infection goes deeper than the skin into the muscle and tissue
      * Organ/space -- the infection is deep and involves the organ and space where you had surgery  

## Treatment

Antibiotics are used to treat most wound infections. Sometimes, you also may
need surgery to treat the infection.

ANTIBIOTICS

You may be started on antibiotics to treat the surgical wound infection. The
length of time you will need to take the antibiotics varies, but will
typically be for at least 1 week. You may be started on IV antibiotics and
then changed to pills later. Take all of your antibiotics, even if you feel
better.

If there is drainage from your wound, it may be tested to figure out the best
antibiotic. Some wounds are infected with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus
aureus (MRSA) which is resistant to commonly used antibiotics. A MRSA
infection will need a specific antibiotic to treat it.

INVASIVE SURGICAL TREATMENT

Sometimes, your surgeon needs to do a procedure to clean the wound. They can
take care of this either in the operating room, in your hospital room or in
clinic. They will:

      * Open the wound by removing the staples or sutures
      * Do tests of the pus or tissue in the wound to figure out if there is an infection and what kind of antibiotic medicine would work best
      * Debride the wound by removing dead or infected tissue in the wound
      * Rinse the wound with salt water (saline solution)
      * Drain the pocket of pus (abscess), if present
      * Pack the wound with saline-soaked dressings and a bandage 

WOUND CARE

Your surgical wound may need to be cleaned and the dressing changed on a
regular basis. You may learn to do this yourself, or nurses may do it for you.
If you do this yourself, you will:

      * Remove the old bandage and packing. You can shower to wet the wound, which allows the bandage to come off more easily.
      * Clean the wound.
      * Put in new, clean packing material and put on a new bandage. 

To help some surgical wounds heal, you may have a wound VAC (vacuum-assisted
closure) dressing. It increases blood flow in the wound and helps with
healing.

      * This is a negative pressure (vacuum) dressing.
      * There is a vacuum pump, a foam piece cut to fit the wound, and a vacuum tube.
      * A clear dressing is taped on top.
      * The dressing and the foam piece are changed every 2 to 3 days. 

It may take days, weeks, or even months for the wound to be clean, clear of
infection, and finally heal.

If the wound does not close by itself, you may need a skin graft or muscle
flap surgery to close the wound. If a muscle flap is necessary, the surgeon
may take a piece of muscle from your buttocks, shoulder, or upper chest to put
over your wound. If you need this, the surgeon will not do this until after
the infection has cleared.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If the wound infection is not very deep and the opening in the wound is small,
you will be able to take care of yourself at home.

If the wound infection is deep or there is a larger opening in the wound, you
may need to spend at least a few days in the hospital. After that, you will
either:

      * Go home and follow-up with your surgeon. Nurses may come to your home to help with care.
      * Go to a nursing facility. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your surgical wound has any signs of infection:

      * Pus or drainage
      * Bad smell coming from the wound
      * Fever, chills
      * Hot to touch
      * Redness
      * Pain or sore to touch

## Alternative Names

Infection - surgical wound; Surgical site infection - SSI

## References

Kulaylat MN, Dayton MT. Surgical complications In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 12.

Moucha CS. Surgical site infection prevention. In: Browner BD, Jupiter JB,
Krettek C, Anderson PA, eds. _Skeletal Trauma: Basic Science, Management, and
Reconstruction._ 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 22.

Webb TP. Surgical site infections. In: Cameron JL, Cameron AM, eds. _Current
Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:1334-1340.

## Review Date 9/3/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![After Surgery](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AfterSurgery_thumb.jpg)After
Surgery _Read more_

![Wounds and
Injuries](https://medlineplus.gov/images/WoundsandInjuries_thumb.jpg)Wounds
and Injuries _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

