Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000315.htm    
                                Description: Your health care provider has covered your wound with a wet-to-dry dressing. With this type of dressing, a wet (or moist) gauze dressing is put on your wound and allowed to dry. Wound drainage and dead    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Wet-to-dry dressing changes

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000315.htm

# Wet-to-dry dressing changes

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your health care provider has covered your wound with a wet-to-dry dressing.
With this type of dressing, a wet (or moist) gauze dressing is put on your
wound and allowed to dry. Wound drainage and dead tissue can be removed when
you take off the old dressing.

Follow any instructions you are given on how to change the dressing. Use this
sheet as a reminder.

## What to Expect at Home

Your provider will tell you how often you should change your dressing at home.

As the wound heals, you should not need as much gauze or packing gauze.

## Removing the Old Dressing

Follow these steps to remove your dressing:

      * Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and warm water before and after each dressing change.
      * Put on a pair of non-sterile gloves.
      * Carefully remove the tape.
      * Remove the old dressing. If it is sticking to your skin, wet it with warm water to loosen it.
      * Remove the gauze pads or packing tape from inside your wound.
      * Put the old dressing, packing material, and your gloves in a plastic bag. Set the bag aside. 

## Cleaning Your Wound

Follow these steps to clean your wound:

      * Put on a new pair of non-sterile gloves.
      * Use a clean, soft washcloth to gently clean your wound with warm water and soap. Your wound should not bleed much when you are cleaning it. A small amount of blood is OK.
      * Rinse your wound with water. Gently pat it dry with a clean towel. DO NOT rub it dry. In some cases, you can even rinse the wound while showering.
      * Check the wound for increased redness, swelling, or a bad odor.
      * Pay attention to the color and amount of drainage from your wound. Look for drainage that has become darker or thicker.
      * After cleaning your wound, remove your gloves and put them in the plastic bag with the old dressing and gloves.
      * Wash your hands again. 

## Changing Your Dressing

Follow these steps to put a new dressing on:

      * Put on a new pair of non-sterile gloves.
      * Pour saline into a clean bowl. Place gauze pads and any packing tape you will use in the bowl.
      * Squeeze the saline from the gauze pads or packing tape until it is no longer dripping.
      * Place the gauze pads or packing tape in your wound. Carefully fill in the wound and any spaces under the skin.
      * Cover the wet gauze or packing tape with a large dry dressing pad. Use tape or rolled gauze to hold this dressing in place.
      * Put all used supplies in the plastic bag. Close it securely, then put it in a second plastic bag, and close that bag securely. Put it in the trash.
      * Wash your hands again when you are finished. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your doctor if you have any of these changes around your wound:

      * Worsening redness
      * More pain
      * Swelling
      * Bleeding
      * It is larger or deeper
      * It looks dried out or dark
      * The drainage is increasing
      * The drainage has a bad smell 

Also call your doctor if:

      * Your temperature is 100.5Â°F (38Â°C), or higher, for more than 4 hours
      * Drainage is coming from or around the wound
      * Drainage is not decreasing after 3 to 5 days
      * Drainage is increasing
      * Drainage becomes thick, tan, yellow, or smells bad 

## Alternative Names

Dressing changes; Wound care - dressing change

## References

Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M. Wound care and
dressings. In: Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M, eds.
_Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills_. 9th ed. New York, NY:
Pearson; 2016:chap 25.

## Patient Instructions

      * Cosmetic breast surgery - discharge
      * Diabetes - foot ulcers
      * Gallstones - discharge
      * Gastric bypass surgery - discharge 
      * Heart bypass surgery - discharge
      * Intestinal or bowel obstruction - discharge
      * Mastectomy - discharge 
      * Open spleen removal in adults - discharge
      * Small bowel resection - discharge
      * Surgical wound care - open

## Review Date 3/12/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Wounds and Injuries

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

