Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000040.htm    
                                Description: An incision is a cut through the skin that is made during surgery. It is also called a surgical wound. Some incisions are small, others are long. The size of the incision depends on the kind of surgery    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Surgical wound care - open

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000040.htm

# Surgical wound care - open

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An incision is a cut through the skin that is made during surgery. It is also
called a surgical wound. Some incisions are small, others are long. The size
of the incision depends on the kind of surgery you had.

Sometimes, an incision breaks open. This may happen along the entire cut or
just part of it. Your doctor may decide not to close it again with sutures
(stitches).

## What to Expect at Home

If your doctor does not close your wound again with sutures, you need to care
for it at home, since it may take time to heal. The wound will heal from the
bottom to the top. A dressing helps absorb drainage and keep the skin from
closing before the wound underneath fills in.

## Proper Handwashing

It is important to clean your hands before you change your dressing. You can
use an alcohol-based cleanser. Or, you can wash your hands using these steps:

      * Take all jewelry off your hands.
      * Wet your hands, pointing them downward under warm running water.
      * Add soap and wash your hands for 15 to 30 seconds (sing "Happy Birthday" or the "Alphabet Song" one time through). Clean under your nails also.
      * Rinse well.
      * Dry with a clean towel. 

## Removing the Old Dressing

Your health care provider will tell you how often to change your dressing. To
prepare for the dressing change:

      * Clean your hands before touching the dressing.
      * Make sure you have all the supplies handy.
      * Have a clean work surface. 

Remove the old dressing:

      * Carefully loosen the tape from your skin.
      * Use a clean (not sterile) medical glove to grab the old dressing and pull it off.
      * If the dressing sticks to the wound, wet it and try again, unless your provider instructed you to pull it off dry.
      * Put the old dressing in a plastic bag and set it aside.
      * Clean your hands _again_ after you take off the old dressing. 

## Caring for the Wound

You may use a gauze pad or soft cloth to clean the skin around your wound:

      * Use a normal saline solution (salt water) or mild soapy water.
      * Soak the gauze or cloth in the saline solution or soapy water, and gently dab or wipe the skin with it.
      * Try to remove all drainage and any dried blood or other matter that may have built up on the skin.
      * DO NOT use skin cleansers, alcohol, peroxide, iodine, or soap with antibacterial chemicals. These can damage the wound tissue and slow healing. 

Your provider may also ask you to irrigate, or wash out, your wound:

      * Fill a syringe with salt water or soapy water, whichever your doctor recommends.
      * Hold the syringe 1 to 6 inches (2.5 to 15 centimeters) away from the wound. Spray hard enough into the wound to wash away drainage and discharge.
      * Use a clean soft, dry cloth or piece of gauze to carefully pat the wound dry. 

DO NOT put any lotion, cream, or herbal remedies on or around your wound,
unless your provider has said it is OK.

## Putting on the New Dressing

Place the clean dressing on the wound as your provider taught you to. You may
be using a wet-to-dry dressing.

Clean your hands when you are finished.

Throw away the old dressing and other used supplies in a waterproof plastic
bag. Close it tightly, then double it before putting it in the trash.

Wash any soiled laundry from the dressing change separately from other
laundry. Ask your provider if you need to add bleach to the wash water.

Use a dressing only once. Never reuse it.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your doctor if:

      * There is more redness, pain, swelling, or bleeding at the wound site.
      * The wound is larger or deeper, or it looks dried out or dark.
      * The drainage coming from or around the wound increases or becomes thick, tan, green, or yellow, or smells bad (which indicates pus).
      * Your temperature is 100.5Â°F (38Â°C) or higher.

## Alternative Names

Surgical incision care; Open wound care

## Images

      * ![Proper hand washing](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22874t.jpg)Proper hand washing

## References

Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M. Wound care and
dressings. In: Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M, eds.
_Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills_. 9th ed. New York, NY:
Pearson; 2016:chap 25.

## Read More

      * Abdominal wall surgery
      * ACL reconstruction
      * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery
      * Ankle replacement
      * Anti-reflux surgery
      * Bladder exstrophy repair
      * Breast augmentation surgery
      * Breast lump removal
      * Bunion removal
      * Carotid artery surgery
      * Carpal tunnel release 
      * Clubfoot repair
      * Congenital diaphragmatic hernia repair
      * Congenital heart defect - corrective surgery
      * Diskectomy
      * Elbow replacement
      * Endoscopic thoracic sympathectomy
      * Gastric bypass surgery
      * Heart bypass surgery
      * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive
      * Heart pacemaker
      * Hip joint replacement
      * Hypospadias repair
      * Hysterectomy
      * Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator
      * Intestinal obstruction repair
      * Kidney removal
      * Knee arthroscopy
      * Knee joint replacement
      * Knee microfracture surgery
      * Laparoscopic gallbladder removal
      * Large bowel resection
      * Leg or foot amputation
      * Lung surgery
      * Mastectomy
      * Meckel diverticulectomy
      * Meningocele repair
      * Omphalocele repair
      * Open gallbladder removal
      * Parathyroid gland removal
      * Patent urachus repair
      * Pectus excavatum repair
      * Pediatric heart surgery
      * Radical prostatectomy
      * Shoulder arthroscopy
      * Skin graft
      * Small bowel resection
      * Spinal fusion
      * Spleen removal
      * Testicular torsion repair
      * Thyroid gland removal
      * Tracheoesophageal fistula and esophageal atresia repair
      * Transurethral resection of the prostate
      * Umbilical hernia repair
      * Varicose vein stripping
      * Ventricular assist device
      * Ventriculoperitoneal shunting

## Patient Instructions

      * Ankle replacement - discharge 
      * Central venous catheter - dressing change
      * Central venous catheter - flushing 
      * Closed suction drain with bulb
      * Elbow replacement - discharge 
      * Foot amputation - discharge
      * Heart bypass surgery - discharge
      * Heart pacemaker - discharge
      * Hemovac drain
      * Kidney removal - discharge
      * Knee arthroscopy - discharge 
      * Laparoscopic spleen removal in adults - discharge
      * Large bowel resection - discharge
      * Leg amputation - discharge
      * Leg or foot amputation - dressing change
      * Lymphedema - self-care
      * Open spleen removal in adults - discharge
      * Pediatric heart surgery - discharge
      * Peripherally inserted central catheter - flushing
      * Phantom limb pain
      * Small bowel resection - discharge
      * Spleen removal - child - discharge
      * Sterile technique
      * Thyroid gland removal - discharge
      * Total colectomy or proctocolectomy - discharge
      * Tracheostomy care
      * Ventriculoperitoneal shunt - discharge
      * Wet-to-dry dressing changes

## Review Date 1/7/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * After Surgery
      * Wounds and Injuries

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

