Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000498.htm    
                                Description: A laceration is a cut that goes all the way through the skin. A small cut can be cared for at home. A large cut needs medical attention right away.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Laceration - sutures or staples - at home

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000498.htm

# Laceration - sutures or staples - at home

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A laceration is a cut that goes all the way through the skin. A small cut can
be cared for at home. A large cut needs medical attention right away.

If the cut is large, it may need stitches or staples to close the wound and
stop the bleeding.

It is important to take care of the injury site after the health care provider
applies the stitches. This helps prevent infection and allows the wound to
heal properly.

## How to Care for Stitches (Sutures)

Stitches are special threads that are sewn through the skin at an injury site
to bring a wound together. Care for your stitches and wound as follows:

      * Keep the area dry for the first 24 to 48 hours after stitches have been placed.
      * Then, you can start to gently wash around the site 1 to 2 times daily. Wash with cool water and soap. Clean as close to the stitches as you can. DO NOT wash or rub the stitches directly.
      * Dab the site dry with a clean paper towel. DO NOT rub the area. Avoid using the towel directly on the stitches.
      * If there was a bandage over the stitches, replace it with a new clean bandage and antibiotic treatment, if so instructed.
      * Your provider should also tell you when you need to have a wound checked and the stitches removed. If not, contact your provider for an appointment. 

## How to Care for Staples

Medical staples are made of special metal and are not the same as office
staples. Care for your staples and wound as follows:

      * Keep the area completely dry for 24 to 48 hours after staples are placed.
      * Then, you can start to gently wash around the staple site 1 to 2 times daily. Wash with cool water and soap. Clean as close to the staples as you can. DO NOT wash or rub the staples directly.
      * Dab the site dry with a clean paper towel. DO NOT rub the area. Avoid using the towel directly on the staples.
      * If there was a bandage over the staples, replace it with a new clean bandage and antibiotic treatment as directed by your provider. Your provider should also tell you when you need to have a wound check and the staples removed. If not, contact your provider for an appointment.

## Important Tips

Keep the following in mind:

      * Prevent the wound from reopening by keeping activity to a minimum.
      * Make sure your hands are clean when you care for the wound.
      * If the laceration is on your scalp, it is OK to shampoo and wash. Be gentle and avoid excessive exposure to water.
      * Take proper care of your wound to help reduce scarring.
      * Call your provider if you have questions or concerns about how to care for stitches or staples at home.
      * You can take pain medicine, such as acetaminophen, as directed for pain at the wound site.
      * Follow-up with your provider to make sure the wound is healing properly. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider right away if:

      * There is any redness, pain, or yellow pus around the injury. This could mean there is an infection.
      * There is bleeding at the injury site that will not stop after 10 minutes of direct pressure.
      * You have new numbness or tingling around the wound area or beyond it.
      * You have a fever of 100Â°F (38.3Â°C) or higher.
      * There is pain at the site that will not go away, even after taking pain medicine.
      * The wound has split open.
      * Your stitches or staples have come out too soon.

## Alternative Names

Skin cut - caring for stitches; Skin cut - suture care; Skin cut - caring for
staples

## Images

      * ![Incision closures](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22873t.jpg)Incision closures

## References

Beard JM, Osborn J. Common office procedures. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 28.

Simon BC, Hern HG. Wound management principles. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 52.

## Review Date 1/10/2018

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Wounds and Injuries

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

