Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000119.htm    
                                Description: Sterile means free from germs. When you care for your catheter or surgery wound, you need to take steps to avoid spreading germs. Some cleaning and care procedures need to be done in a sterile way so that    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sterile technique

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000119.htm

# Sterile technique

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sterile means free from germs. When you care for your catheter or surgery
wound, you need to take steps to avoid spreading germs. Some cleaning and care
procedures need to be done in a sterile way so that you do not get an
infection.

Follow your health care provider's instructions on using sterile technique.
Use the information below as a reminder of the steps.

## Sterile Technique

Carefully follow all of the steps below to keep your work area sterile.

You will need:

      * Running water and soap
      * A sterile kit or pad
      * Gloves (sometimes these are in your kit)
      * A clean, dry surface
      * Clean paper towels

Wash your hands well and keep all work surfaces clean and dry at all times.
When you handle supplies, touch only the outside wrappers with your bare
hands. You may need to wear a mask over your nose and mouth.

Keep your supplies within your reach so you do not drop or rub against them
while you go through the steps. If you need to cough or sneeze, turn your head
away from your supplies and cover your mouth firmly with the crook of your
elbow.

## Getting Your Supplies Ready

To open a sterile pad or kit:

      * Wash your hands with soap and running water for at least 1 minute. Wash the backs, palms, fingers, and between your fingers thoroughly. Wash for as long as it takes you to slowly say the alphabet or sing the "Happy Birthday" song, 2 times through. Dry with a clean paper towel.
      * Use the special flap to pull back the paper wrapper of your pad or kit. Open it so that the inside faces away from you.
      * Pinch the other sections on the outside, and pull them back gently. DO NOT touch the inside. Everything inside the pad or kit is sterile except for the 1-inch (2.5 centimeters) border around it.
      * Throw the wrapper away. 

Your gloves may be separate or inside the kit. To get your gloves ready:

      * Wash your hands again the same way you did the first time. Dry with a clean paper towel.
      * If the gloves are in your kit, pinch the glove wrapper to pick it up, and place it on a clean, dry surface next to the pad.
      * If the gloves are in a separate package, open the outer wrapper and place the open package on a clean, dry surface next to the pad. 

## Putting on Your Gloves

When putting on your gloves:

      * Put your gloves on carefully.
      * Wash your hands again the same way you did the first time. Dry with a clean paper towel.
      * Open the wrapper so that the gloves are laying out in front of you. But DO NOT touch them.
      * With your writing hand, grab the other glove by the folded wrist cuff.
      * Slide the glove onto your hand. It helps to keep your hand straight and thumb tucked in.
      * Leave the cuff folded. Be careful not to touch the outside of the glove.
      * Pick up the other glove by sliding your fingers into the cuff.
      * Slip the glove over the fingers of this hand. Keep your hand flat and do not let your thumb touch your skin.
      * Both gloves will have a folded-over cuff. Reach under the cuffs and pull back toward your elbow. 

Once your gloves are on, do not touch anything except your sterile supplies.
If you do touch something else, remove the gloves, wash your hands again, and
go through the steps to open and put on a new pair of gloves.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you are having trouble using the sterile technique.

## Alternative Names

Sterile gloves; Wound care - sterile technique; Catheter care - sterile
technique

## References

Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M. Wound care and
dressings. In: Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M, eds.
_Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills_. 9th ed. New York, NY:
Pearson; 2016:chap 25.

## Read More

      * Stress urinary incontinence
      * Urge incontinence
      * Urinary incontinence

## Patient Instructions

      * Central venous catheter - dressing change
      * Central venous catheter - flushing 
      * Indwelling catheter care
      * Peripherally inserted central catheter - flushing
      * Surgical wound care - open

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Wounds and Injuries

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

