Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000738.htm    
                                Description: An incision is a cut through the skin made during surgery. It is also called a &quot;surgical wound.&quot; Some incisions are small. Others are very long. The size of an incision depends on the kind of surgery you    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Surgical wound care - closed

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000738.htm

# Surgical wound care - closed

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An incision is a cut through the skin made during surgery. It is also called a
"surgical wound." Some incisions are small. Others are very long. The size of
an incision depends on the kind of surgery you had.

To close your incision, your doctor used one of the following:

      * Stitches (sutures)
      * Clips
      * Staples
      * Skin glue 

Proper wound care can help prevent infection and reduce scarring as your
surgical wound heals.

## Caring for Your Wound

When you come home after surgery, you may have a dressing on your wound.
Dressings do several things, including:

      * Protect your wound from germs
      * Reduce the risk of infection
      * Cover your wound so that stitches or staples do not catch on clothing
      * Protect the area as it heals
      * Soak up any fluids that leak from your wound 

You can leave your original dressing in place for as long as your health care
provider says. You will want to change it sooner if it becomes wet or soaked
with blood or other fluids.

DO NOT wear tight clothing that rubs against the incision while it is healing.

Your provider will tell you how often to change your dressing. Your provider
likely gave you specific instructions on how to change the dressing. The steps
outlined below will help you remember.

Getting prepared:

      * Clean your hands before touching the dressing. Wash your hands with soap and warm water. Also clean under your nails. Rinse, then dry your hands with a clean towel.
      * Make sure you have all the supplies handy.
      * Have a clean work surface. 

Remove the old dressing.

      * Put on clean medical gloves if your wound is infected (red or oozing), or if you are changing the dressing for someone else. The gloves do not need to be sterile.
      * Carefully loosen the tape from the skin.
      * If the dressing sticks to the wound, moisten it gently with water and try again, unless your doctor instructed you to pull it off dry.
      * Put the old dressing in a plastic bag and set it aside.
      * Remove the gloves if you had them on. Throw them in the same plastic bag as the old dressing.
      * Wash your hands again. 

When you put on a new dressing:

      * Make sure your hands are clean. Put on clean gloves if your own wound is infected, or if you are putting on dressing for someone else.
      * DO NOT touch the inside of the dressing.
      * DO NOT apply antibiotic cream unless your doctor tells you to.
      * Place the dressing over the wound and tape down all 4 sides.
      * Put the old dressing, tape, and other trash in the plastic bag. Seal the bag and throw it away. 

If you have non-dissolvable stitches or staples, the provider will remove
them. DO NOT pull at your stitches or try to remove them on your own.

## Bathing or Showering

Your provider will let you know when it is OK to shower or bathe after
surgery. Usually it is fine to shower after 24 hours. Keep in mind:

      * Showers are better than baths because the wound doesn't soak in the water. Soaking the wound could cause it to reopen or become infected.
      * Remove the dressing before bathing unless told otherwise. Some dressings are waterproof. The provider may suggest covering the wound with a plastic bag to keep it dry.
      * If your provider gives the OK, gently rinse the wound with water as you bathe. DO NOT rub or scrub the wound.
      * DO NOT use lotions, powders, cosmetics, or any other skin care products on the wound.
      * Gently pat dry the area around the wound with a clean towel. Let the wound air dry.
      * Apply a new dressing.

At some point during the healing process, you will not need a dressing
anymore. Your provider will tell you when you can leave your wound uncovered.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if there are any of the following changes around the
incision:

      * More redness or pain
      * Swelling or bleeding
      * The wound is larger or deeper
      * The wound looks dried out or dark 

You should also call your doctor if the drainage coming from or around the
incision increases or becomes thick, tan, green, or yellow, or smells bad
(pus).

Also call if your temperature is above 100Â°F (37.7Â°C) for more than 4 hours.

## Alternative Names

Surgical incision care; Closed wound care

## References

Leong M, Murphy KD, Phillips LG. Wound healing. In: Townsend CM, Beauchamp RD,
Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis
of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
6.

Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M. Wound care and
dressings. In: Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M, eds.
_Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills_. 9th ed. New York, NY:
Pearson; 2016:chap 25.

## Review Date 6/11/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * After Surgery
      * Wounds and Injuries

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

