Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000736.htm    
                                Description: A human bite can break, puncture, or tear the skin. Bites that break the skin can be very serious because of the risk for infection.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Human bites - self-care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000736.htm

# Human bites - self-care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A human bite can break, puncture, or tear the skin. Bites that break the skin
can be very serious because of the risk for infection.

## Causes

Human bites can occur in two ways:

      * If someone bites you
      * If your hand comes into contact with a person's teeth and breaks the skin, such as during a fist fight 

Bites are very common among young children. Children often bite to express
anger or other negative feelings.

Males between 10 and 34 years old are more likely to be victims of human
bites.

Human bites may be more dangerous than animal bites. Certain germs in some
human mouths can cause hard-to-treat infections. You can also get certain
diseases from a human bite, such as HIV/AIDS or hepatitis B or hepatitis C.

## Symptoms

Symptoms from bites may be mild to severe, including:

      * Skin breaks or major cuts, with or without bleeding
      * Puncture wounds
      * Bruising
      * Crushing injuries that can cause severe tissue tears
      * Tendon or joint injuries 

## Wound Care

If you or your child gets a bite that breaks the skin, you should see a health
care provider within 24 hours for treatment.

If you are caring for someone who was bitten:

      * Calm and reassure the person.
      * Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water before treating the wound.
      * If the wound is bleeding, put on protective gloves if you have them.
      * Wash your hands afterward, as well.

To care for the wound:

      * Stop the wound from bleeding by applying direct pressure with a clean, dry cloth.
      * Wash the wound. Use mild soap and warm, running water. Rinse the bite for 3 to 5 minutes.
      * Apply an antibacterial ointment to the wound. This may help reduce the chance for infection.
      * Put on a dry, sterile bandage. 

Get medical attention within 24 hours.

      * For deeper wounds, you may need stitches.
      * Your provider may give you a tetanus shot.
      * You may need to take antibiotics. If the infection has spread, you may need to receive antibiotics through a vein (IV).
      * For a bad bite, you may need surgery to repair the damage.

DO NOT ignore any human bite, especially if it is bleeding. And DO NOT put
your mouth on the wound.

## Possible Complications

Complications from bite wounds include:

      * An infection that spreads quickly
      * Damage to tendons or joints 

A human bite is more likely to become infected in people who have:

      * Weakened immune systems due to medicines or disease
      * Diabetes
      * Peripheral arterial disease (arteriosclerosis, or poor circulation)

## How to Prevent Human Bites

Prevent bites by:

      * Teaching young children not to bite others.
      * Never putting your hand near or in the mouth of someone who is having a seizure. 

## When to Call the Doctor

See a provider within 24 hours for any bite that breaks the skin.

Call your provider or go to an emergency room if:

      * The bleeding does not stop after a few minutes. For serious bleeding, call your local emergency number, such as 911.
      * There is swelling, redness, or pus draining from the wound.
      * You notice red streaks that spread out from the wound.
      * The bite is on the head, face, neck, or hands.
      * The bite is deep or large.
      * You see exposed muscle or bone.
      * You are not sure if the wound needs stitches.
      * You have not had a tetanus shot in 5 years. 

## Alternative Names

Bites - human - self-care

## Images

      * ![Human bites](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9759t.jpg)Human bites

## References

Eilbert WP. Mammalian bites. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 54.

Goldstein EJC, Abrahamian FM. Bites. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 320.

## Review Date 4/7/2018

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Wounds and Injuries

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

