Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002579.htm    
                                Description: Caffeine is a substance that exists naturally in certain plants. It can also be man-made and added to food products. It stimulates the central nervous system and is a diuretic, which means it increases    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Caffeine overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002579.htm

# Caffeine overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Caffeine is a substance that exists naturally in certain plants. It can also
be man-made and added to food products. It stimulates the central nervous
system and is a diuretic, which means it increases urination.

Caffeine overdose occurs when someone takes in more than a normal or
recommended amount. This can be by accident or on purpose.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual overdose. If you or someone you are with overdoses, call your local
emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be reached
directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

CaffeineÂ can be harmful in large amounts.

## Where Found

Caffeine is an ingredient in these products:

      * Certain soft drinks (such as Pepsi, Coke, Mountain Dew)
      * Certain teas
      * Chocolate, including hot chocolate drinks
      * Coffee
      * Over-the-counter stimulants that help you stay awake such as NoDoz, Vivarin, Caffedrine, and others
      * Workout supplements, such as Force Factor Fuego, Red Bull and 5-hour Energy drinks, and many more

Other products may also contain caffeine.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of caffeine overdose in adults may include:

      * Breathing trouble
      * Changes in alertness
      * Agitation, confusion, hallucinations
      * Convulsions
      * Diarrhea
      * Dizziness
      * Fever
      * Increased thirst
      * Increased urination
      * Irregular heartbeat
      * Muscle twitching
      * Nausea, vomiting
      * Rapid heartbeat
      * Sleeping trouble

Symptoms in babies may include:

      * Muscles that are very tense, then very relaxed 
      * Nausea, vomiting 
      * Rapid, deep breathing 
      * Rapid heartbeat
      * Shock
      * Tremors

## Home Care

Seek medical help right away.Â Do NOT make the person throw up unless poison
control or aÂ health care provider tells you to do so.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

      * Person's age, weight, and condition
      * Name of the product (ingredients and strength, if known)
      * Time it was swallowed
      * Amount swallowed

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This national hotline will let you talk to experts in
poisoning. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison control. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure.

Tests that may done include:

      * Blood and urine tests
      * Chest x-ray
      * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)

Treatment may include:

      * Intravenous fluids (given through a vein)
      * Medicine to treat symptoms
      * Activated charcoal
      * Laxative
      * Shock to the heart for serious heart rhythm disturbances
      * Breathing support, including tube through the mouth into the lungs and breathing machine (ventilator)

## Outlook (Prognosis)

A brief hospital stay may be necessary to complete treatment. In severe cases,
death may result from convulsions or an irregular heartbeat.

## References

Aronson JK. Caffeine. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of Drugs_.
16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:7-15.

Meehan TJ. Approach to the poisoned patient. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 139.

## Review Date 6/23/2019

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Caffeine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Caffeine_thumb.jpg)Caffeine _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

