Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002445.htm    
                                Description: Caffeine is a substance that is found in certain plants. It can also be man-made and added to foods. It is a central nervous system stimulant and a diuretic (substance that helps rid your body of fluids).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Caffeine in the diet

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002445.htm

# Caffeine in the diet

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Caffeine is a substance that is found in certain plants. It can also be man-
made and added to foods. It is a central nervous system stimulant and a
diuretic (substance that helps rid your body of fluids).

## Function

Caffeine is absorbed and passes quickly into the brain. It does not collect in
the bloodstream or get stored in the body. It leaves the body in the urine
many hours after it has been consumed.

There is no nutritional need for caffeine. It can be avoided in the diet.

Caffeine stimulates, or excites, the brain and nervous system. It will not
reduce the effects of alcohol, although many people still erroneously believe
a cup of coffee will help a person "sober-up."

Caffeine may be used for the short-term relief of fatigue or drowsiness.

## Food Sources

Caffeine is widely consumed. It is found naturally in the leaves, seeds, and
fruits of more than 60 plants, including:

      * Tea leaves
      * Kola nuts
      * Coffee
      * Cocoa beans 

It is also found in processed foods:

      * Coffee - 75 to100 mg per 6 ounce cup, 40 mg per 1 ounce espresso.
      * Tea - 60 to100 mg per 16 ounce cup black or green tea.
      * Chocolate - 10 mg per ounce sweet, semisweet, or dark, 58 mg per ounce unsweetened baking chocolate.
      * Most colas (unless they are labeled "caffeine-free") - 45 mg in a 12 ounce (360 milliliters) drink.
      * Candies, energy drinks, snacks, gum - 40 to 100 mg per serving.

Caffeine is often added to over-the-counter medicines such as pain relievers,
over-the-counter diet pills, and cold medicines. Caffeine has no flavor. It
can be removed from a food by a chemical process called decaffeination.

## Side Effects

Caffeine can lead to:

      * A fast heart rate
      * Anxiety
      * Difficulty sleeping
      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Restlessness
      * Tremors
      * Urinating more often 

Stopping caffeine suddenly may cause withdrawal symptoms. These may include:

      * Drowsiness
      * Headaches
      * Irritability
      * Nausea and vomiting

There has been much research on the health effects of caffeine.

      * Large amounts of caffeine may stop the absorption of calcium and lead to thinning bones (osteoporosis).
      * Caffeine may lead to painful, lumpy breasts (fibrocystic disease). 

Caffeine may harm a child's nutrition if drinks with caffeine replace healthy
drinks such as milk. Caffeine cuts down on appetite so a child who consumes
caffeine may eat less. The United States has not developed guidelines for
caffeine intake by children.

## Recommendations

The American Medical Association Council on Scientific Affairs states that
moderate tea or coffee drinking is not likely to be harmful to your health as
long as you have other good health habits.

Four 8 oz. cups (1 liter) of brewed or drip coffee (about 400 mg of caffeine)
or 5 servings of caffeinated soft drinks or tea (about 165 to 235 mg of
caffeine) per day is an average or moderate amount of caffeine for most
people. Consuming very large amounts of caffeine (over 1200 mg) within a short
time period may lead to toxic effects such as seizures.

You may want to limit your caffeine intake if:

      * You are prone to stress, anxiety, or sleep problems.
      * You are a woman with painful, lumpy breasts.
      * You have acid reflux or stomach ulcers.
      * You have high blood pressure that does get lower with medicine.
      * You have problems with fast or irregular heart rhythms.
      * You have chronic headaches. 

Watch how much caffeine a child gets.

      * There are currently no specific guidelines for caffeine consumption in children and teen, American Academy of Pediatrics discourages its use, especially energy drinks. 
      * These drinks often contain large amount of caffeine as well as other stimulants, which can cause sleep problems, as well as nervousness and stomach upset. 

Small amounts of caffeine during pregnancy are safe. Avoid large amounts.

      * Caffeine, like alcohol, travels through your bloodstream to the placenta. Excessive caffeine intake can have a negative effect on a developing baby. Caffeine is a stimulant, so it increases your heart rate and metabolism. Both of these can affect the baby.
      * During pregnancy, it is fine to have 1 or 2 small cups (240 to 480 milliliters) of caffeinated coffee or tea a day during pregnancy. However, limit your intake to less than 200 mg per day. Many drugs will interact with caffeine. Talk to your health care provider about possible interactions with the medicines you take. 

If you are trying to cut back on caffeine, reduce your intake slowly to
prevent withdrawal symptoms.

## Alternative Names

Diet - caffeine

## References

Coeytaux RR, Mann JD. Headache. In: Rakel D, ed. _Integrative Medicine_. 4th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 12.

Committee on Nutrition and the Council on Sports Medicine and Fitness. Sports
drinks and energy drinks for children and adolescents: are they appropriate?
_Pediatrics_. 2011;127(6):1182-1189. PMID: 21624882
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21624882.

U.S. Food & Drug Administration. Spilling the beans: how much caffeine is too
much? www.fda.gov/consumers/consumer-updates/spilling-beans-how-much-caffeine-
too-much? Updated December 12, 2018. Accessed June 20, 2019.

Victor RG. Systemic hypertension: mechanisms and diagnosis. In: Zipes DP,
Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 46.

## Review Date 4/30/2019

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CDN, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Caffeine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Caffeine_thumb.jpg)Caffeine _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

