Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000750.htm    
                                Description: Acne is a skin condition that causes pimples or &quot;zits.&quot; Whiteheads (closed comedomes), blackheads (open comdedomes), red, inflamed papules, and nodules or cysts may develop. These most often occur on the    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Acne - self-care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000750.htm

# Acne - self-care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Acne is a skin condition that causes pimples or "zits." Whiteheads (closed
comedomes), blackheads (open comdedomes), red, inflamed papules, and nodules
or cysts may develop. These most often occur on the face or shoulders.

Acne occurs when tiny pores on the surface of the skin become clogged. The
pores can become plugged by substances on the surface of the skin. More
commonly they develop from a mixture of the natural oils of the skin and the
dead cells shed from the inside of the pore. These plugs are called comedones.
Acne is most common in teenagers. But anyone can get acne.

Acne breakouts can be triggered by:

      * Hormonal changes
      * Use of oily skin or hair care products
      * Certain medicines
      * Sweat
      * Humidity
      * Possibly diet

## Daily Skin Care

To keep your pores from clogging and your skin from becoming too oily:

      * Clean your skin gently with a mild, non-drying soap, such as Dove, Neutrogena, Cetaphil, or CeraVe.
      * It may help to use a wash with salicylic acid or benzoyl if your skin is oily and prone to acne. Remove all dirt or make up.
      * Wash once or twice a day, and also after exercising. Avoid scrubbing or repeated skin washing.
      * Shampoo your hair daily, if it is oily.
      * Comb or pull your hair back to keep the hair out of your face.
      * Avoid using rubbing alcohol or toners that are very drying to the skin.
      * Avoid oil-based cosmetics. 

Acne medicines can cause skin drying or peeling. Use a moisturizer or skin
cream that is water-based or "noncomedogenic" or that clearly states that is
safe to use on the face and will not cause acne. Remember that products that
say they are noncomedogenic might still cause acne in you personally.
Therefore, avoid any product that you find makes your acne worse.

A small amount of sun exposure may improve acne slightly. But, tanning mostly
just hides it. Too much exposure to sun or in tanning booths increases the
risk for skin cancer. Some acne medicines can make your skin more sensitive to
the sun. Use sunscreen and hats regularly if you are taking these medicines.

There is no consistent evidence that you need to avoid chocolate, milk, high-
fat foods, or sweetened foods. However, it is a good idea to avoid any of
foods if you find eating those specific foods seems to make your acne worse.

To further prevent acne:

      * DO NOT aggressively squeeze, scratch, pick, or rub pimples. This can lead to skin infections as well as scarring and delayed healing.
      * Avoid wearing tight headbands, baseball caps, and other hats.
      * Avoid touching your face.
      * Avoid greasy cosmetics or creams.
      * DO NOT leave make up on overnight. 

## Acne Medicines

If daily skin care does not clear up blemishes, try over-the-counter acne
medicines that you apply to your skin.

      * These products may contain benzoyl peroxide, sulfur, adapalene, resorcinol, or salicylic acid.
      * They work by killing bacteria, drying up skin oils, or causing the top layer of your skin to peel.
      * They may cause redness or peeling of the skin.

If these acne medicines cause your skin to become irritated:

      * Try using smaller amounts. A drop the size of a pea will cover the entire face.
      * Use the medicines only every other or third day until your skin gets used to them.
      * Wait 10 to 15 minutes after washing your face before applying these medicines.

## Treatments From Your Health Care Provider

If pimples are still a problem after you've tried over-the-counter medicines,
your health care provider may suggest:

      * Antibiotics in the form of pills or creams that you put on your skin
      * Prescription gels or creams containing a retinoid to help clear up the pimples
      * Hormone pills for women whose acne is made worse by hormonal changes
      * Isotretinoin pills for severe acne
      * A laser procedure called photodynamic therapy
      * Chemical skin peeling 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider or a dermatologist if:

      * Self-care steps and over-the-counter medicine do not help after several months.
      * Your acne is very bad (for example, you have a lot of redness around the pimples, or you have cysts).
      * Your acne is getting worse.
      * You develop scars as your acne clears up.
      * Acne is causing emotional stress. 

## Alternative Names

Acne vulgaris - self-care; Cystic acne - self-care; Pimples - self-care; Zits
- self-care

## Images

      * ![Adult facial acne](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8614t.jpg)Adult facial acne
      * ![Acne](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9959t.jpg)Acne

## References

Draelos ZD. Cosmetics and cosmeceuticals. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV,
Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
153.

James WD, Berger TG, Elston DM. Acne. In: James WD, Berger TG, Elston DM, eds.
_Andrews' Diseases of the Skin: Clinical Dermatology_. 12th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 13.

Zaenglein AL, Thiboutot DM. Acne vulgaris. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV,
Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
36.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: David L. Swanson, MD, Vice Chair of Medical Dermatology, Associate
Professor of Dermatology, Mayo Medical School, Scottsdale, AZ. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Acne

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

