Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000873.htm    
                                Description: Acne is a skin condition that causes pimples or &quot;zits.&quot; Whiteheads, blackheads, and red, inflamed patches of skin (such as cysts) may develop.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Acne

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000873.htm

# Acne

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Acne is a skin condition that causes pimples or "zits." Whiteheads,
blackheads, and red, inflamed patches of skin (such as cysts) may develop.

## Causes

Acne occurs when tiny holes on the surface of the skin become clogged. These
holes are called pores.

      * Each pore opens to a follicle. A follicle contains a hair and an oil gland. The oil released by the gland helps remove old skin cells and keeps your skin soft.
      * The glands can become blocked with a mixture or oil and skin cells, the blockage is called a plug or comedone. If the top of the plug is white, it is called a whitehead. It is called a blackhead if the top of the plug is dark.
      * If bacteria become trapped in the plug, the body's immune system may react to it, causing pimples.
      * Acne that is deep in your skin can cause hard, painful cysts. This is called nodulocystic acne. 
![Acne - cystic on the
chest](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/2355.jpg)

Acne is most common in teenagers, but anyone can get acne, even babies. The
problem tends to run in families.

Some things that may trigger acne include:

      * Hormonal changes that make the skin oilier. These may be related to puberty, menstrual periods, pregnancy, birth control pills, or stress.
      * Greasy or oily cosmetic and hair products.
      * Certain drugs (such as steroids, testosterone, estrogen, and phenytoin). Birth control devices such as some drug containing IUDs that can make acne worse.
      * Heavy sweating and humidity. 

Research does not show that chocolate, nuts, and greasy foods cause acne.
However, diets high in refined sugars or dairy products may be related to acne
in some people, but this connection is controversial.

## Symptoms

Acne commonly appears on the face and shoulders. It may also occur on the
trunk, arms, legs, and buttocks. Skin changes include:

      * Crusting of skin bumps
      * Cysts
      * Papules (small red bumps)
      * Pustules (small red bumps containing white or yellow pus)
      * Redness around the skin eruptions
      * Scarring of the skin
      * Whiteheads
      * Blackheads
![Blackheads
\(comedones\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/2087.jpg)

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider can diagnose acne by looking at your skin. Testing
is not needed in most cases. Bacterial culture may be performed with certain
patterns of acne or to rule out infection if large pus bumps persist.

## Treatment

SELF-CARE

Steps you can take to help your acne:

      * Clean your skin gently with a mild, nondrying soap (such as Dove, Neutrogena, Cetaphil, CeraVe, or Basics).
      * Look for water-based or "noncomedogenic" formulas for cosmetics and skin creams. (Noncomedogenic products have been tested and proven not to clog pores and cause acne in most people.)
      * Remove all dirt or make-up. Wash once or twice a day, including after exercising.
      * Avoid scrubbing or repeated skin washing.
      * Shampoo your hair daily, especially if it is oily.
      * Comb or pull your hair back to keep the hair out of your face. 

What NOT to do:

      * Try not to aggressively squeeze, scratch, pick, or rub the pimples. This can lead to skin infections, slower healing,Â and scarring.
      * Avoid wearing tight headbands, baseball caps, and other hats.
      * Avoid touching your face with your hands or fingers.
      * Avoid greasy cosmetics or creams.
      * DO NOT leave make-up on overnight. 

If these steps do not clear up the blemishes, try over-the-counter acne
medicines that you apply to your skin. Follow the directions carefully and
apply these products sparingly.

      * These products may contain benzoyl peroxide, sulfur, resorcinol, adapalene, or salicylic acid.
      * They work by killing bacteria, drying up skin oils, or causing the top layer of your skin to peel.
      * They may cause redness, drying, or excessive peeling of the skin.
      * Be aware that benzoyl peroxide containing preparations can bleach or discolor towels and clothing. 

A small amount of sun exposure may improve acne slightly, but tanning mostly
hides the acne. Too much exposure to sunlight or ultraviolet rays is not
recommended because it increases the risk for skin cancer.

MEDICINES FROM YOUR HEALTH CARE PROVIDER

If pimples are still a problem, a provider can prescribe stronger medicines
and discuss other options with you.

Antibiotics may help some people with acne:

      * Oral antibiotics (taken by mouth) such as tetracycline, doxycycline, minocycline, erythromycin, trimethoprim, and amoxicillin
      * Topical antibiotics (applied to the skin) such as clindamycin, erythromycin, or dapsone 

Creams or gels applied to the skin may be prescribed:

      * Derivatives of vitamin A such as retinoic acid cream or gel (tretinoin, Retin-A)
      * Prescription formulas of benzoyl peroxide, sulfur, resorcinol, or salicylic acid
      * Topical azelaic acid 

For women whose acne is caused or made worse by hormones:

      * A pill called spironolactone may help.
      * Birth control pills may help in some cases, though they may make acne worse in some women. 

Minor procedures or treatments may also be helpful:

      * Photodynamic therapy may be used. This is a treatment where a chemical that is activated by blue light is applied to the skin, followed by exposure to the light.
      * Your provider may also suggest chemical skin peeling; removal of scars by dermabrasion; or removal, drainage, or injection of cysts with cortisone. 

People who have cystic acne and scarring may try a medicine called
isotretinoin (Accutane). You will be watched closely when taking this medicine
because of its side effects.

Pregnant women should NOT take Accutane, because it causes severe birth
defects.

      * Women taking Accutane must use 2 forms of birth control before starting the drug and enroll in the iPledge program.
      * Men also need to be enrolled in the iPledge program.
      * Your provider will follow you on this drug and you will have regular blood tests. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most of the time, acne goes away after the teenage years, but it may last into
middle age. The condition often responds well to treatment after 6 to 8 weeks,
but may flare up from time to time.

Scarring may occur if severe acne is not treated. Some people become very
depressed if acne is not treated.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * Self-care steps and over-the-counter medicine do not help after several months.
      * Your acne is very bad (for example, you have a lot of redness around the pimples, or you have cysts).
      * Your acne is getting worse.
      * You develop scars as your acne clears up.
      * Acne is causing emotional stress. 
![Adult facial acne](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/8614.jpg)

If your baby has acne, call the baby's provider if acne does not clear up on
its own within 3 months.

## Alternative Names

Acne vulgaris; Cystic acne; Pimples; Zits

## Images

      * ![Baby acne](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19645t.jpg)Baby acne
      * ![Acne - close-up of pustular lesions](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2085t.jpg)Acne - close-up of pustular lesions
      * ![Blackheads \(comedones\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2087t.jpg)Blackheads (comedones)
      * ![Acne - cystic on the chest](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2355t.jpg)Acne - cystic on the chest
      * ![Acne - cystic on the face](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2356t.jpg)Acne - cystic on the face
      * ![Acne - vulgaris on the back](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2357t.jpg)Acne - vulgaris on the back
      * ![Acne on the back](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2929t.jpg)Acne on the back
      * ![Acne](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23199t.jpg)Acne

## References

Gehris RP. Dermatology. In: Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Norwalk AJ, eds. _Atlas
of Pediatric Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 8.

Habif TP. Acne, roacea, and related distorders. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 7.

Walsh TR, Efthimiou J, Dreno B. Systematic review of antibiotic resistance in
acne: an increasing topical and oral threat. _Lancet Infect Dis_.
2016;16(3):e23-33. PMID: 26852728 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26852728.

## Review Date 7/25/2017

Updated by: David L. Swanson, MD, Vice Chair of Medical Dermatology, Associate
Professor of Dermatology, Mayo Medical School, Scottsdale, AZ. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Acne](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AcneII_thumb.jpg)Acne _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

