Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007382.htm    
                                Description: Medical abortion is the use of medicine to end an undesired pregnancy. The medicine helps remove the fetus and placenta from the mother    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Abortion - medical

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007382.htm

# Abortion - medical

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Medical abortion is the use of medicine to end an undesired pregnancy. The
medicine helps remove the fetus and placenta from the mother's womb (uterus).

There are different types of medical abortions:

      * Therapeutic medical abortion is done because the woman has a health condition.
      * Elective abortion is done because a woman chooses (elects) to end the pregnancy.

An elective abortion is not the same as a miscarriage. Miscarriage is when a
pregnancy ends on its own before the 20th week of pregnancy.Â Miscarriage is
sometimes called a spontaneous abortion.

Surgical abortion uses surgery to end a pregnancy.

## Description

A medical, or nonsurgical, abortion can be done within 7 weeks from the first
day of the woman's last period. A combination of prescription hormone
medicines is used to help the body remove the fetus and placenta tissue. Your
health care provider may give you the medicines after doing a physical exam
and asking questions about your medical history.

Medicines used include mifepristone, methotrexate, misoprostol,
prostaglandins, or a combination of these medicines. Your provider will
prescribe the medicine, and you will take it at home.

After you take the medicine, your body will expel the pregnancy tissue. Most
women have moderate to heavy bleeding and cramping for several hours. Your
provider may prescribe medicine for pain and nausea if needed to ease your
discomfort during this process.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Medical abortion might be considered when:

      * The woman may not wish to be pregnant (elective abortion). 
      * The developing baby has a birth defect or genetic problem.
      * The pregnancy is harmful to the woman's health (therapeutic abortion).
      * The pregnancy resulted after a traumatic event such as rape or incest.

## Risks

Risks of medical abortion include:

      * Continued bleeding
      * Diarrhea
      * Pregnancy tissue not passing completely from body, making surgery necessary
      * Infection
      * Nausea
      * Pain
      * Vomiting 

## Before the Procedure

The decision to end a pregnancy is very personal. To help weigh your choices,
discuss your feelings with a counselor, provider, or a family member or
friend.

Tests done before this procedure:

      * Pelvic exam is done to confirm the pregnancy and estimate how many weeks pregnant you are.
      * An HCG blood test may be done to confirm the pregnancy.
      * A blood test is done to check your blood type. Based on the test result, you may need a special shot to prevent problems if you get pregnant in the future. The shot is called Rho(D) immune globulin (RhoGAM and other brands).
      * Vaginal or abdominal ultrasound may be done to determine the exact age of the fetus and its location in the womb.

## After the Procedure

Follow-up with your provider is very important. This is to make sure the
process was completed and all the tissue was expelled. The medicine may not
work in a very small number of women. If this happens, another dose of the
medicine or a surgical abortion procedure may need to be done.

Physical recovery most often occurs within a few days. It will depend on the
stage of the pregnancy. Expect some vaginal bleeding and mild cramping for a
few days.

A warm bath, a heating pad set on low, or a hot water bottle filled with warm
water placed on the abdomen may help easeÂ discomfort. Rest as needed. DO NOT
do any vigorous activity for a few days. Light housework is fine. Avoid sexual
intercourse for 2 to 3 weeks. A normal menstrual period should occur in about
4 to 6 weeks.

You can get pregnant before your next period. Be sure to make arrangements to
prevent pregnancy, particularly during the first month after the abortion.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Medical and surgical abortions are safe and effective. They rarely have
serious complications. It is rare for a medical abortion to affect a woman's
fertility or her ability to bear children in the future.

## Alternative Names

Therapeutic medical abortion; Elective medical abortion; Induced abortion;
Nonsurgical abortion

## References

American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. Practice bulletin no.
143: medical management of first-trimester abortion. _Obstet Gynecol_.
2014;123(3):676-692. PMID: 24553166 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24553166.

Nelson-Piercy C, Mullins EWS, Regan L. Women's health. In: Kumar P, Clark M,
eds. _Kumar and Clark's Clinical Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 29.

Rivlin K, Westhoff C. Family planning. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM,
Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 13.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Abortion](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Abortion_thumb.jpg)Abortion _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

