Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000658.htm    
                                Description: &#10;You have had a surgical abortion. This is a procedure that ends pregnancy by removing the fetus and placenta from your womb (uterus). &#10;    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Abortion - surgical - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000658.htm

# Abortion - surgical - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You have had a surgical abortion. This is a procedure that ends pregnancy by
removing the fetus and placenta from your womb (uterus).

## What to Expect at Home

These procedures are very safe and low risk. You will likely recover without
problems. It may take a few days to feel well.

You may have cramps that feel like menstrual cramps for a few days to 2 weeks.
You may have light vaginal bleeding or spotting for up to 4 weeks.

Your normal period will likely return in 4 to 6 weeks.

It is normal to feel sad or depressed after this procedure. Seek help from
your health care provider or a counselor if these feelings do not go away. A
family member or friend can also provide comfort.

## Self-care

To relieve discomfort or pain in your abdomen:

      * Take a warm bath. Make sure the bath is cleaned with disinfectant prior to each use.
      * Apply a heating pad to your lower abdomen or place a hot water bottle filled with warm water on your abdomen.
      * Take over-the-counter painkillers as instructed. 

Follow these activity guidelines after your procedure:

      * Rest as needed.
      * DO NOT do any strenuous activity the first few days. This includes not lifting anything heavier than 10 pounds or 4.5 kilograms (about the weight of a 1-gallon or 4 liters milk jug).
      * Also, DO NOT do any aerobic activity, including running or working out. Light housework is fine.
      * Use pads to absorb bleeding and drainage from your vagina. Change the pads every 2 to 4 hours to avoid infection.
      * DO NOT use tampons or put anything in your vagina, including douching.
      * DO NOT have vaginal intercourse for 2 to 3 weeks, or until cleared by your health care provider.
      * Take any other medicine, such as an antibiotic, as instructed.
      * Begin using birth control right after your procedure. It is possible to get pregnant again even before your normal period resumes. Birth control can help prevent unplanned pregnancies. Be aware though, unplanned pregnancies can occur even when you use birth control. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Contact your provider if:

      * You have vaginal bleeding that increases or you need to change your pads more often than every hour.
      * You feel lightheaded or dizzy.
      * You have chest pain or shortness of breath.
      * You have swelling or pain in one leg.
      * You have continued pain or pregnancy symptoms beyond 2 weeks.
      * You have signs of infection, including fever that does not go away, vaginal drainage with a foul odor, vaginal drainage that looks like pus, or pain or tenderness in your abdomen. 

## Alternative Names

Termination - aftercare

## References

Magowan BA, Owen P, Thomson A. Abortion. In: Magowan BA, Owen P, Thomson A,
eds. _Clinical Obstetrics and Gynaecology_. 4th ed. Elsevier; 2019:chap 20.

Nelson-Piercy C, Mullins EWS, Regan L. Women's health. In: Kumar P, Clark M,
eds. _Kumar and Clarke's Clinical Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 29.

Rivlin K, Westhoff C. Family planning. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM,
Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 13.

## Review Date 12/30/2018

Updated by: LaQuita Martinez, MD, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology,
Emory Johns Creek Hospital, Alpharetta, GA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD,
MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Abortion

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

