Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002912.htm    
                                Description: Surgical abortion is a procedure that ends an undesired pregnancy by removing the fetus and placenta from the mother    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Abortion - surgical

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002912.htm

# Abortion - surgical

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Surgical abortion is a procedure that ends an undesired pregnancy by removing
the fetus and placenta from the mother's womb (uterus).

Surgical abortion is not the same as miscarriage. Miscarriage is when a
pregnancy ends on its own before the 20th week of pregnancy.

## Description

Surgical abortion involves dilating the opening to the uterus (cervix) and
placing a small suction tube into the uterus. Suction is used to remove the
fetus and related pregnancy material from the uterus.

Before the procedure, you may have the following tests:

      * A urine test checks if you are pregnant.
      * A blood test checks your blood type. Based on the test result, you may need a special shot to prevent problems if you get pregnant in the future. The shot is called Rho(D) immune globulin (RhoGAM and other brands). 
      * An ultrasound test checks how many weeks pregnant you are.

During the procedure:

      * You will lie on an exam table.
      * You may receive medicine (sedative) to help you relax and feel sleepy.
      * Your feet will rest in supports called stirrups. These allow your legs to be positioned so that your doctor can view your vagina and cervix.
      * Your health care provider may numb your cervix so you feel little pain during the procedure.
      * Small rods called dilators will be put in your cervix to gently stretch it open. Sometimes laminaria (sticks of seaweed for medical use) are placed in the cervix. This is done the day before the procedure to help the cervix dilate slowly.
      * Your provider will insert a tube into your womb, then use a special vacuum to remove the pregnancy tissue through the tube.
      * You may be given an antibiotic to reduce the risk of infection.  

After the procedure, you may be given medicine to help your uterus contract.
This reduces bleeding.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Reasons a surgical abortion might be considered include:

      * You have made a personal decision not to carry the pregnancy.
      * Your baby has a birth defect or genetic problem.
      * Your pregnancy is harmful to your health (therapeutic abortion).
      * The pregnancy resulted after a traumatic event such as rape or incest. 

The decision to end a pregnancy is very personal. To help you weigh your
choices, discuss your feelings with a counselor or your provider. A family
member or friend can also be of help.

## Risks

Surgical abortion is very safe. It is very rare to have any complications.

Risks of surgical abortion include:

      * Damage to the womb or cervix
      * Uterine perforation (accidentally putting a hole in the uterus with one of the instruments used)
      * Excessive bleeding
      * Infection of the uterus or fallopian tubes
      * Scarring of the inside of the uterus
      * Reaction to the medicines or anesthesia, such as problems breathing
      * Not removing all of the tissue, requiring another procedure 

## After the Procedure

You will stay in a recovery area for a few hours. Your providers will tell you
when you can go home. Because you may still be drowsy from the medicines,
arrange ahead of time to have someone pick you up.

Follow instructions for how to care for yourself at home. Make any follow-up
appointments.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Problems rarely occur after this procedure.

Physical recovery usually occurs within a few days, depending on the stage of
the pregnancy. Vaginal bleeding can last for a week to 10 days. Cramping most
often lasts for a day or two.

You can get pregnant before your next period, which will occur 4 to 6 weeks
after the procedure. Be sure to make arrangements to prevent pregnancy,
especially during the first month after the procedure. You may want to talk
with your provider about emergency contraception.

## Alternative Names

Suction curettage; Surgical abortion; Elective abortion - surgical;
Therapeutic abortion - surgical

## Images

      * ![Abortion procedure](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8611t.jpg)Abortion procedure

## References

Katzir L. Induced abortion. In: Mularz A, Dalati S, Pedigo R, eds. _Ob/Gyn
Secrets_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 13.

Rivlin K, Westhoff C. Family planning. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM,
Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 13.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Abortion](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Abortion_thumb.jpg)Abortion _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

