Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000835.htm    
                                Description: More About Medical Abortion    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ending pregnancy with medicines

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000835.htm

# Ending pregnancy with medicines

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

**More About Medical Abortion**

Some women prefer the use of medicines to terminate a pregnancy because:

      * It may be used in early pregnancy.
      * It may be used at home.
      * It feels more natural, like a miscarriage.
      * It is less invasive than an in-clinic abortion. 

Medicines can be used to end an early pregnancy. In many cases, the first day
of your last period has to be less than 9 weeks ago. If you are over 9 weeks
pregnant, you can have an in-clinic abortion. Some clinics will go beyond 9
weeks for a medicine abortion.

Be very certain that you want to end your pregnancy. It is not safe to stop
the medicines once you have started taking them. Doing so creates a very high
risk for severe birth defects.

 **Who Should Not Have a Medical Abortion**

You should NOT have a medicine abortion if you:

      * Are over 9 weeks pregnant (time since the start of your last period).
      * Have a blood clotting disorder or adrenal failure.
      * Have an IUD. It must be removed first.
      * Are allergic to the medicines that are used to end pregnancy.
      * Take any medicines that should not be used with a medical abortion.
      * Do not have access to a doctor or an emergency room. 

**Getting Ready for a Medical Abortion**

The health care provider will:

      * Do a physical exam and ultrasound
      * Go over your medical history
      * Do blood and urine tests
      * Explain how the abortion medicines work
      * Have you sign forms 

**What Happens During a Medical Abortion**

You may take the following medicines for the abortion:

      * Mifepristone - this is called the abortion pill or RU-486
      * Misoprostol
      * You will also take antibiotics to prevent infection 

You will take mifepristone in the provider's office or clinic. This stops the
hormone progesterone from working. The lining of the uterus breaks down so the
pregnancy cannot continue.

The provider will tell you when and how to take the misoprostol. It will be
about 6 to 72 hours after taking mifepristone. Misoprostol causes the uterus
to contract and empty.

After taking the second medicine, you will feel a lot of pain and cramping.
You will have heavy bleeding and see blood clots and tissue come out of your
vagina. This most often takes 3 to 5 hours. The amount will be more than you
have with your period. This means the medicines are working.

You may also have nausea, and you may vomit, have a fever, chills, diarrhea,
and a headache.

You can take pain relievers such as ibuprofen (Motrin, Advil) or acetaminophen
(Tylenol) to help with the pain. Do not take aspirin. Expect to have light
bleeding for up to 4 weeks after a medical abortion. You will need to have
pads to wear. Plan to take it easy for a few weeks.

You should avoid vaginal intercourse for about a week after a medical
abortion. You can get pregnant soon after an abortion, so talk with your
health care provider about what birth control to use. Make sure you are using
an effective contraception before you resume sexual activity. You should get
your regular period in about 4 to 8 weeks.

 **Follow up with Your Health Care Provider**

Make a follow-up appointment with your provider. You need to be checked to
make sure the abortion was complete and that you are not having any problems.
In case it did not work, you will need to have an in-clinic abortion.

 **Risks to Ending Pregnancy with Medicine**

Most women have a medical abortion safely. There are a few risks, but most can
be treated easily:

      * An incomplete abortion is when part of the pregnancy does not come out. You will need to have an in-clinic abortion to complete the abortion.
      * Heavy bleeding
      * Infection
      * Blood clots in your uterus 

Medical abortions are typically very safe. In most cases, it does not affect
your ability to have children unless you have a serious complication.

 **When to Call the Doctor**

Serious problems must be treated right away for your safety. Call your
provider if you have:

      * Heavy bleeding - you are soaking through 2 pads every hour for 2 hours
      * Blood clots for 2 hours or more, or if the clots are larger than a lemon
      * Signs that you are still pregnant 

You should also call your doctor if you have signs of infection:

      * Bad pain in your stomach or back
      * A fever over 100.4Â°F (38Â°C) or any fever for 24 hours
      * Vomiting or diarrhea for more than 24 hours after taking the pills
      * Bad smelling vaginal discharge 

## Alternative Names

Abortion pill

## References

Lesnewski R, Prine L. Pregnancy termination: medication abortion. In: Fowler
GC, ed. _Pfenninger and Fowler's Procedures for Primary Care_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 114.

Nelson-Piercy C, Mullins EWS, Regan L. Women's health. In: Kumar P, Clark M,
eds. _Kumar and Clarke's Clinical Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 29.

Oppegaard KS, Qvigstad E, Fiala C, Heikinheimo O, Benson L, Gemzell-Danielsson
K. Clinical follow-up compared with self-assessment of outcome after medical
abortion: a multicentre, non-inferiority, randomised, controlled trial.
_Lancet_. 2015;385(9969):698-704. PMID: 25468164
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25468164.

Rivlin K, Westhoff C. Family planning. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM,
Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 13.

## Review Date 3/28/2019

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Abortion

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

