Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000998.htm    
                                Description: A canker sore is a painful, open sore in the mouth. Canker sores are white or yellow and surrounded by a bright red area. They are not cancerous.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Canker sore

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000998.htm

# Canker sore

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A canker sore is a painful, open sore in the mouth. Canker sores are white or
yellow and surrounded by a bright red area. They are not cancerous.

A canker sore is not the same as a fever blister (cold sore).

## Causes

Canker sores are a common form of mouth ulcer. They may occur with viral
infections. In some cases, the cause is unknown.

Canker sores may also be linked to problems with the body's immune system. The
sores may also be brought on by:

      * Mouth injury from dental work
      * Cleaning the teeth too roughly
      * Biting the tongue or cheek 

Other things that can trigger canker sores include:

      * Emotional stress
      * Lack of certain vitamins and minerals in the diet (especially iron, folic acid, or vitamin B-12)
      * Hormonal changes
      * Food allergies

Anyone can develop a canker sore. Women are more likely to get them than men.
Canker sores may run in families.

## Symptoms

Canker sores most often appear on the inner surface of the cheeks and lips,
tongue, upper surface of the mouth, and the base of the gums.

Symptoms include:

      * One or more painful, red spots or bumps that develops into an open ulcer
      * White or yellow center
      * Small size (most often under one third inch or 1 centimeter across)
      * Gray color as healing starts

Less common symptoms include:

      * Fever
      * General discomfort or uneasiness (malaise)
      * Swollen lymph nodes

Pain often goes away in 7 to 10 days. It can take 1 to 3 weeks for a canker
sore to completely heal. Large ulcers can take longer to heal.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider can often make the diagnosis by looking at the sore.

If canker sores persist or continue to return, tests should be done to look
for other causes, such as erythema multiforme, drug allergies, herpes
infection, and bullous lichen planus.

You may need further testing or a biopsy to look for other causes of mouth
ulcers. Canker sores are not cancer and do not cause cancer. There are types
of cancer, however, that may first appear as a mouth ulcer that does not heal.

## Treatment

In most cases, the canker sores go away without treatment.

Try not to eat hot or spicy foods, which can cause pain.

Use over-the-counter medicines that ease pain in the area.

      * Rinse your mouth with salt water or mild, over-the-counter mouthwashes. (DO NOT use mouthwashes that contain alcohol which can irritate the area more.)
      * Apply a mixture of half hydrogen peroxide and half water directly to the sore using a cotton swab. Follow by dabbing a small amount of Milk of Magnesia on the canker sore afterward. Repeat these steps 3 to 4 times a day.
      * Rinse your mouth with a mixture of half Milk of Magnesia and half Benadryl liquid allergy medicine. Swish mixture in the mouth for about 1 minute and then spit out.

Medicines prescribed by your provider may be needed for severe cases. These
may include:

      * Chlorhexidine mouthwash
      * Stronger medicines called corticosteroids that are placed on the sore or are taken in pill form

Brush your teeth twice a day and floss your teeth every day. Also, get routine
dental check-ups.

In some cases, gastric acid-reducing medicines can decrease the discomfort.Â

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Canker sores almost always heal on their own. The pain should decrease in a
few days. Other symptoms disappear in 10 to 14 days.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * A canker sore or mouth ulcer does not go away after 2 weeks of home care or gets worse.
      * You get canker sores more than 2 or 3 times a year.
      * You have symptoms with the canker sore such as fever, diarrhea, headache, or skin rash. 

## Alternative Names

Aphthous ulcer; Ulcer - aphthous

## Images

      * ![Canker sore](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19652t.jpg)Canker sore
      * ![Mouth anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8880t.jpg)Mouth anatomy
      * ![Canker sore \(aphthous ulcer\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2333t.jpg)Canker sore (aphthous ulcer)
      * ![Fever blister](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9325t.jpg)Fever blister

## References

Daniels TE, Jordan RC. Diseases of the mouth and salivary glands. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 425.

Dhar V. Common lesions of the oral soft tissues. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW,
Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics._
21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 341.Â

Lingen MW. Head and neck. In: Kumar V, Abbas AK, Aster JC, eds. _Robbins and
Cotran Pathologic Basis of Disease_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 16.

## Review Date 5/22/2019

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Canker Sores](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CankerSore_thumb.jpg)Canker
Sores _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

