Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000051.htm    
                                Description: Choking is when someone cannot breathe because food, a toy, or other object is blocking the throat or windpipe (airway).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Choking - unconscious adult or child over 1 year

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000051.htm

# Choking - unconscious adult or child over 1 year

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Choking is when someone cannot breathe because food, a toy, or other object is
blocking the throat or windpipe (airway).

A choking person's airway may be blocked so that not enough oxygen reaches the
lungs. Without oxygen, brain damage can occur in as little as 4 to 6 minutes.
Rapid first aid for choking can save a person's life.

This article discusses choking in adults or children over age 1 who have lost
alertness (are unconscious).

## Causes

Choking may be caused by:

      * Eating too fast, not chewing food well, or eating with dentures that do not fit well
      * Foods such as food chunks, hot dogs, popcorn, peanut butter, sticky or gooey food (marshmallows, gummy bears, dough)  

      * Drinking alcohol (even a small amount of alcohol affects awareness)
      * Being unconscious and breathing in vomit
      * Breathing in or swallowing small objects (young children)
      * Injury to the head and face (for example, swelling, bleeding, or a deformity can cause choking)
      * Swallowing problems caused by a stroke or other brain disorders
      * Enlarging tonsils or tumors of the neck and throat
      * Problems with the esophagus (food pipe or swallowing tube)

## Symptoms

Symptoms of choking when a person is unconscious include:

      * Bluish color to the lips and nails
      * Inability to breathe

## First Aid

Tell someone to call 911 or the local emergency number while you begin first
aid and CPR.

If you are alone, shout for help and begin first aid and CPR.

      1. Roll the person onto their back on a hard surface, keeping the back in a straight line while firmly supporting the head and neck. Expose the person's chest.
      2. Open the person's mouth with your thumb and index finger, placing your thumb over the tongue and your index finger under the chin. If you can see an object and it is loose, remove it. 
      3. If you do not see an object, open the person's airway by lifting the chin while tilting the head back.
      4. Place your ear close to the person's mouth and watch for chest movement. Look, listen, and feel for breathing for 5 seconds.
      5. If the person is breathing, give first aid for unconsciousness.
      6. If the person is not breathing, begin rescue breathing. Maintain the head position, close the person's nostrils by pinching them with your thumb and index finger, and cover the person's mouth tightly with your mouth. Give two slow, full breaths with a pause in between.
      7. If the person's chest does not rise, reposition the head and give two more breaths.
      8. If the chest still does not rise, the airway is likely blocked, and you need to start CPR with chest compressions. The compressions may help relieve the blockage.
      9. Do 30 chest compressions, open the person's mouth to look for an object. If you see the object and it is loose, remove it.
      10. If the object is removed, but the person has no pulse, begin CPR with chest compressions. 
      11. If you do not see an object, give two more rescue breaths. If the person's chest still does not rise, keep going with cycles of chest compressions, checking for an object, and rescue breaths until medical help arrives or the person starts breathing on their own.

If the person starts having seizures (convulsions), give first aid for this
problem.

After removing the object that caused the choking, keep the person still and
get medical help. Anyone who is choking should have a medical examination.
This is because the person can have complications not only from the choking,
but also from the first aid measures that were taken.

## DO NOT

DO NOT try to grasp an object that is lodged in the person's throat. This may
push it farther down the airway. If you can see the object in the mouth, it
may be removed.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Seek medical help right away if someone is found unconscious.

In the days following a choking episode, contact a doctor right away if the
person develops:

      * A cough that doesn'tÂ go away
      * Fever
      * Difficulty swallowing or speaking
      * Shortness of breath
      * Wheezing

The above signs may indicate:

      * The object entered the lung instead of being expelled
      * Injury to the voicebox (larynx)

## Prevention

To prevent choking:

      * Eat slowly and chew food completely.
      * Cut large pieces of food into easily chewable sizes.  

      * Do not drink too much alcohol before or during eating.
      * Keep small objects away from young children.
      * Make sure dentures fit properly.

## Alternative Names

Choking - unconscious adult or child over 1 year; First aidÂ - choking -
unconscious adult or child over 1 year; CPR - choking - unconscious adult or
child over 1 year

## Images

      * ![First Aid for Choking - unconscious adult or child over 1 year](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17172t.jpg)First Aid for Choking - Unconscious Adult

## References

American Red Cross. _First Aid/CPR/AED Participant's Manual_. 2nd ed. Dallas,
TX: American Red Cross; 2016.

Atkins DL, Berger S, Duff JP, et al. Part 11: pediatric basic life support and
cardiopulmonary resuscitation quality: 2015 American Heart Association
guidelines update for cardiopulmonary resuscitation and emergency
cardiovascular care. _Circulation_. 2015;132(18 Suppl 2):S519-S525. PMID:
26472999 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26472999.

Easter JS, Scott HF. Pediatric resuscitation. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 163.

Kleinman ME, Brennan EE, Goldberger ZD, et al. Part 5: adult basic life
support and cardiopulmonary resuscitation quality: 2015 American Heart
Association guidelines update for cardiopulmonary resuscitation and emergency
cardiovascular care. Circulation. 2015;132(18 Suppl 2):S414-S435. PMID:
26472993 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26472993.

Kurz MC, Neumar RW. Adult resuscitation. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 8.

Thomas SH, Goodloe JM. Foreign bodies. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 53.

## Review Date 1/12/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Choking](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Choking_thumb.jpg)Choking _Read
more_

![A photograph of a man administering first aid to a
woman](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TI_FirstAid_thumb.jpg)First Aid _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

