ï»¿

Skip directly to search Skip directly to A to Z list Skip directly to site
content

CDC Home

![CDC. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC 24/7: Saving Lives.
Protecting People.](/TemplatePackage/images/cdcHeaderLogo.gif)CDC 24/7: Saving
Lives. Protecting People.™

Search The CDC

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

## Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report ( _MMWR_ )

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _MMWR_



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          *  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          *  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          *  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          *  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          *  

![Share](/TemplatePackage/images/social/sm-plus.gif)ShareCompartir

# Outbreak of _Salmonella_ Newport Infections Linked to Cucumbers -- United
States, 2014

Kristina M. Angelo, DO1,2, Alvina Chu, MHS3, Madhu Anand, MPH4, Thai-An
Nguyen, MPH2, Lyndsay Bottichio, MPH2, Matthew Wise, PhD2, Ian Williams, PhD2,
Sharon Seelman, MS, MBA5, Rebecca Bell, PhD5, Marianne Fatica, PhD5, Susan
Lance, DVM, PhD5, Deanna Baldwin6, Kyle Shannon3, Hannah Lee, MPH3, Eija
Trees, PhD2, Errol Strain, PhD5, Laura Gieraltowski, PhD2 (Author affiliations
at end of text)

In August 2014, PulseNet, the national molecular subtyping network for
foodborne disease surveillance, detected a multistate cluster of _Salmonella
enterica_ serotype Newport infections with an indistinguishable pulse-field
gel electrophoresis (PFGE) pattern ( _Xba_ I PFGE pattern JJPX01.0061).*
Outbreaks of illnesses associated with this PFGE pattern have previously been
linked to consumption of tomatoes harvested from Virginia's Eastern Shore in
the Delmarva region and have not been linked to cucumbers or other produce
items ( _1_ ). To identify the contaminated food and find the source of the
contamination, CDC, state and local health and agriculture departments and
laboratories, and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) conducted
epidemiologic, traceback, and laboratory investigations. A total of 275
patients in 29 states and the District of Columbia were identified, with
illness onsets occurring during May 20-September 30, 2014. Whole genome
sequencing (WGS), a highly discriminating subtyping method, was used to
further characterize PFGE pattern JJPX01.0061 isolates. Epidemiologic,
microbiologic, and product traceback evidence suggests that cucumbers were a
source of _Salmonella_ Newport infections in this outbreak. The epidemiologic
link to a novel outbreak vehicle suggests an environmental reservoir for
_Salmonella_ in the Delmarva region that should be identified and mitigated to
prevent future outbreaks.

**Epidemiologic Investigation**

A case was defined as infection with _Salmonella_ Newport with PFGE pattern
JJPX01.0061 (the outbreak strain) in a person with illness onset occurring
during May 20-September 30, 2014. Initial interviews of ill persons conducted
by state and local health officials found that travel to the Delmarva region
during the incubation period was commonly reported. A structured, focused
supplemental questionnaire was developed to collect detailed information on
travel and exposure to restaurants, seafood, fruit, and produce, including
tomatoes, in the 7 days before illness onset. Exposure frequencies were
compared with the 2006-2007 FoodNet Population Survey, in which healthy
persons reported foods consumed in the week before interview.† Information
also was collected on illness subclusters, defined as two or more unrelated
ill persons who reported eating at the same restaurant, attending the same
event, or shopping at the same grocery store in the week before becoming ill.

A total of 275 cases were reported from 29 states and the District of Columbia
(Figure 1). An additional 18 suspected cases not meeting the case definition
were excluded from the analysis because they were found to be temporal
outliers and unlikely to be related. Illness onset dates ranged from May 25 to
September 29, 2014 (Figure 2). Median age of patients was 42 years (range =
<1-90 years); 66% (174 of 265) were female. Thirty-four percent (48 of 141)
were hospitalized; one death was reported in an elderly man with bacteremia. A
total of 101 patients were interviewed using the supplemental questionnaire
about exposures in the week before illness onset. This questionnaire focused
on leafy greens and tomatoes and contained smaller sections on fruit,
vegetables, and seafood common to the Delmarva region. Many patients were
unreachable and did not receive the supplemental questionnaire. Sixty-two
percent (49 of 79) of respondents reported eating cucumbers in the week before
becoming ill. Patients were significantly more likely to report consuming
cucumbers compared with respondents in the 2006-2007 FoodNet Population
Survey, both for national year-round cucumber consumption (46.9% [p=0.002])
and for cucumber consumption in Maryland during the month of July (54.9%
[p=0.04]). The proportion of ill persons who reported eating tomatoes, leafy
greens, or any other item on the supplemental questionnaire was not
significantly higher than expected compared with findings from the FoodNet
Population Survey.

**Traceback investigation**

Officials in Maryland, Delaware, and New York worked with their FDA district
offices and FDA and U.S. Department of Agriculture foodborne outbreak rapid
response teams to conduct an informational (i.e., nonregulatory) traceback
from retail establishments in these states to identify a point of distribution
convergence for produce items (i.e., cucumbers, leafy greens, and tomatoes)
consumed in nine of 12 subclusters. Each of eight establishments in Maryland
and Delaware received cucumbers from a single major distributor. Preliminary
traceback from the distributor to several brokers identified a common grower
on Maryland's Eastern Shore in the Delmarva region. Traceback from a New York
subcluster led to a different distribution chain than in Maryland and
Delaware. Officials from the Maryland Department of Agriculture, the Maryland
rapid response team, and the FDA Baltimore District Office visited the
Maryland farm. Officials collected 48 environmental samples from areas where
cucumbers were grown, harvested, and packed. Sediment and manure samples were
taken from the farm. No samples yielded _Salmonella_ ; however, sampling was
performed several months after the harvest. Records and interviews indicated
that the farm applied poultry litter approximately 120 days before harvest,
but it was not available for testing.

**Laboratory investigation**

Twelve distinct illness subclusters were identified across four states,
ranging in size from two to six cases. WGS was performed on 58 clinical
isolates by state health departments, FDA, and CDC laboratories to further
characterize the genetic relatedness of bacteria isolated from patients.
Phylogenetic analysis revealed a primary group of highly related clinical
isolates from cases in Delaware, Maryland, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Virginia
(median single nucleotide polymorphism distance = 26 [97.5% confidence
interval = 1-37]). An additional group of highly related isolates from
patients in New York was also identified, but this group was distinct from the
primary phylogenetic group, consistent with the epidemiologic and traceback
findings (single nucleotide polymorphism distance between the two phylogenetic
groups = 102 [97.5% confidence interval = 85-114]). CDC's National
Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System laboratory conducted antibiotic
resistance testing on three isolates from ill persons with the outbreak
strain. All three were susceptible to all antibiotics tested.§

### Discussion

The epidemiologic data, traceback investigations, and whole genome sequencing
all support the hypothesis that cucumbers were a likely source of _Salmonella_
Newport infections in this outbreak. Cucumbers were the only food eaten by
patients significantly more often than expected. Traceback investigations
performed using invoices from illness subclusters in Maryland and Delaware
identified a common grower of cucumbers in the Delmarva region. This is the
first multistate outbreak of _Salmonella_ Newport implicating a fresh produce
item grown in the Delmarva region other than tomatoes. Historically,
_Salmonella_ Newport outbreaks associated with this PFGE pattern have been
linked to red round tomatoes grown on Virginia's Eastern Shore. These
outbreaks occurred in 2002 (333 persons), 2005 (72 persons), 2006 (115
persons), and 2007 (65 persons), with an additional suspected outbreak in 2010
(51 persons) ( _1_ ). A definitive contamination source has not been found,
and _Salmonella_ Newport has not been isolated directly from any Delmarva
region tomatoes. Wildlife have been evaluated as a possible source of
contamination, but fecal specimens from deer, turtles, and birds have been
negative and do not support the hypothesis that animals are a source ( _2_ ).
Other serotypes of _Salmonella_ have been linked to cucumbers; most recently
an outbreak of _Salmonella_ Saintpaul infections was linked to imported
cucumbers from Mexico in 2013 ( _3_ ).

Investigating illness subclusters can provide critical clues about the source
of an outbreak. Informational traceback can support the epidemiologic
investigation by quickly assessing the plausibility of one or more vehicles as
the source of the outbreak. Informational traceback generally can be completed
much more quickly than regulatory traceback, which requires the collection of
specific types of records, such as receipts, invoices, and bills of lading, at
each step of the distribution chain. In this investigation, the informational
traceback quickly provided a critical clue that suggested cucumbers were a
likely source in the outbreak.

Consultation with independent industry experts early in an outbreak
investigation also can provide important clues to help focus the investigation
on certain suspected foods. Because of the suspicion that this outbreak was
caused by a novel vehicle for this _Salmonella_ Newport PFGE pattern, an
industry consultation was held on September 11, 2014, with three independent
experts from the produce industry to obtain information regarding cucumber
harvesting and distribution on the Delmarva region. The consultants provided
information regarding crop production and distribution practices that also
helped assess the plausibility of cucumbers as an outbreak vehicle.

Advanced molecular detection methods, including WGS, might improve
discrimination of subclusters during outbreak investigations. WGS data from
the subclusters in this investigation demonstrated a phylogenetic link between
clinical isolates from the eight Maryland and Delaware subclusters, in
addition to differentiating these clusters from a subcluster in New York. The
significance of this differentiation remains unclear at this time but might
suggest that some of the illnesses in New York were not related to consumption
of cucumbers from the Delmarva region. This is also supported by the
informational traceback from the New York establishment, which led to a
different distribution chain than those of the Maryland and Delaware
establishments.

The findings in this report are subject to at least two limitations. First, no
case-control study was performed because illness subclusters were small.
Second, not all patients in the subclusters were systematically asked about
cucumber consumption.

This outbreak supports the continued evaluation of farm practices by FDA as a
part of the development of a Produce Safety Rule.¶ These evaluations include
conducting a risk assessment and working with the U.S. Department of
Agriculture and other stakeholders. It also includes performing research to
strengthen scientific support for determining appropriate intervals between
application of raw manure fertilizer and harvest. The Maryland Department of
Agriculture plans additional assessments in the Delmarva region before the
2015 planting season to determine whether additional or alternative "best
practices" can be implemented.

Given the typical shelf life of cucumbers is 10-14 days, cucumbers from the
implicated grower are no longer available for purchase or in person's homes.
Consumers and retailers should always follow safe produce handling
recommendations.** Cucumbers, like all produce, should be washed thoroughly,
scrubbed with a clean produce brush before peeling or cutting, and
refrigerated as soon as possible to prevent multiplication of bacteria such as
_Salmonella_.

### Acknowledgments

William Wolfgang, PhD, David Nicholas, MPH, New York State Department of
Health. David Blythe, MD, Maryland Department of Mental Health and Hygiene.
Kate Heiman, MPH, Division of Foodborne, Waterborne, and Environmental
Diseases, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, CDC.

1Epidemic Intelligence Service, CDC; 2Division of Foodborne, Waterborne, and
Environmental Diseases, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious
Diseases, CDC; 3Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene; 4New York
State Department of Health; 5Food and Drug Administration; 6Maryland
Department of Agriculture (Corresponding author: Kristina M. Angelo,
kangelo@cdc.gov, 404-718-4876)

### References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1. Bennett SD, Litterell KW, Hill TA, Mahovic M, Behravesh CB. Multistate foodborne disease outbreaks associated with raw tomatoes, United States, 1990-2010: a recurring public health problem. Epidemiol Infect 2014;August 28:1-8 [Epub ahead of print].
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2. Gruszynski K, Pao S, Kim C, et al. Evaluating wildlife as a potential source of _Salmonella_ serotype Newport (JJPX01.0061) contamination for tomatoes on the Eastern Shore of Virginia. Zoonoses Public Health 2014;61:202-7.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3. CDC. Multistate outbreak of _Salmonella_ Saintpaul infections linked to imported cucumbers (final update). Available at http://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/saintpaul-04-13/index.html.
  

* Additional information available at http://www.cdc.gov/pulsenet.

† Additional information available at
http://www.cdc.gov/foodnet/studies/population-surveys.html.

§ Additional information available at
http://www.cdc.gov/narms/about/index.html.

¶ Available at http://www.fda.gov/food/guidanceregulation/fsma/ucm334114.htm.

** Available at
http://www.foodsafety.gov/keep/types/fruits/tipsfreshprodsafety.html.

  

What is already known on this topic?

_Salmonella_ is the most common bacterial cause of foodborne disease in the
United States and results in the highest number of hospitalizations and deaths
among foodborne pathogens. _Salmonella_ Newport has historically been a common
cause of tomato-associated outbreaks in the United States. The Virginia
Eastern Shore in the Delmarva region has been the site of multiple outbreaks
of _Salmonella_ Newport infection in recent years.

What is added by this report?

In August 2014, a multistate cluster of _Salmonella enterica_ serotype Newport
infections with an indistinguishable pulse-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE)
pattern ( _Xba_ I PFGE pattern JJPX01.0061) was detected, involving 275
patients in 29 states and the District of Columbia with illness onsets
occurring during May 20 and September 30. Epidemiologic, product traceback,
and laboratory evidence implicated cucumbers. Whole genome sequencing, used to
subtype the isolates, and the traceback investigation suggested that some, but
not all, of the contaminated cucumbers were from a farm in Maryland. No
_Salmonella_ was isolated from environmental samples taken at the farm.

What are the implications for public health practice?

The epidemiologic link to a novel outbreak vehicle from the Delmarva region,
cucumbers, suggests an environmental reservoir for _Salmonella_ that might
also include both the Virginia and Maryland portions of the Delmarva region.
Federal, state, and local public health and regulatory authorities should
focus on identifying and mitigating this potential environmental reservoir to
prevent future outbreaks.

  

**FIGURE 1. Number of persons (N = 275) infected with the outbreak strain of**
** _Salmonella_** **Newport, by state -- United States, May 20-September 30,
2014**

![The figure above is a map of the United States showing the number of persons
infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Newport, by state, in the
United States during May 20- September 30, 2014. A total of 275 cases were
reported from 29 states and the District of Columbia.](figures/m6406a3f1.gif)

**Alternate Text:** The figure above is a map of the United States showing the
number of persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Newport, by
state, in the United States during May 20- September 30, 2014. A total of 275
cases were reported from 29 states and the District of Columbia.

  

**FIGURE 2. Number of persons (N = 275) infected with the outbreak strain of**
** _Salmonella_** **Newport, by estimated date of illness onset -- United
States, May 20-September 30, 2014 **

![The figure above is a histogram showing the number of persons \(N = 275\)
infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Newport, by estimated date of
illness onset, in the United States during May 20-September 30, 2014.
](figures/m6406a3f2.gif)

**Alternate Text:** The figure above is a histogram showing the number of
persons (N = 275) infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Newport, by
estimated date of illness onset, in the United States during May 20-September
30, 2014.

  
  

Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does
not imply endorsement by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.  
  
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to
_MMWR_ readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these
organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services. CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these
sites. URL addresses listed in _MMWR_ were current as of the date of
publication.

  

All _MMWR_ HTML versions of articles are electronic conversions from typeset
documents. This conversion might result in character translation or format
errors in the HTML version. Users are referred to the electronic PDF version
(http://www.cdc.gov/mmwr) and/or the original _MMWR_ paper copy for printable
versions of official text, figures, and tables. An original paper copy of this
issue can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government
Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC 20402-9371; telephone: (202) 512-1800.
Contact GPO for current prices.  
  
**Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to
mmwrq@cdc.gov.



### _MMWR_ Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Weekly Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Past Volumes (1982-2014)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recommendations and Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Past Volumes (1990-2014)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Surveillance Summaries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Past Volumes (1983-2014)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Supplements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Notifiable Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About _MMWR_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Instructions for Authors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Serial Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Weekly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Continuing Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Continuing Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Weekly Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Serial Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State Health Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _MMWR_ Editorial Board
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _MMWR_ Staff



### File Formats Help:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ![Adobe PDF file](/TemplatePackage/images/icon_pdf.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ![Microsoft Word file](/TemplatePackage/images/icon_word.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ![Microsoft Excel file](/TemplatePackage/images/icon_excel.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ![Microsoft PowerPoint file](/TemplatePackage/images/icon_ppt.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ![Audio/Video file](/TemplatePackage/images/icon_wmv.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ![Zip Archive file](/TemplatePackage/images/icon_zip.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ![RealPlayer file](/TemplatePackage/images/icon_real.gif)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ![Apple Quicktime file](/TemplatePackage/images/icon_qt.gif)

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?
![double arrows.](/TemplatePackage/images/btn_dblArrows.gif)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Print
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Subscribe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Download

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Page last reviewed: February 20, 2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Page last updated: February 20, 2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * A-Z Index
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Using this Site
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Link to Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Contact CDC

![USA.gov: The U.S. Government's Official Web
Portal](/TemplatePackage/images/logo_usagov.gif)![Department of Health and
Human Services](/TemplatePackage/images/logo_dhhs.gif)

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention   1600 Clifton Road Atlanta, GA
30329-4027, USA  
800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY: (888) 232-6348 - Contact CDC-INFO

A-Z Index

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1. A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2. B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3. C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4. D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5. E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6. F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7. G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8. H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9. I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10. J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11. K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12. L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          13. M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          14. N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          15. O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          16. P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          17. Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          18. R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          19. S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          20. T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          21. U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          22. V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          23. W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          24. X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          25. Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          26. Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          27. #

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)



  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[10 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM

