

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

National Outbreak Reporting System (NORS)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate

# Using NORS Dashboard

Minus

Related Pages

Does NORS Dashboard include information on all disease outbreaks in the United
States?

No. NORS Dashboard does not have information on all disease outbreaks for
several reasons:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * NORS collects information only on disease outbreaks of enteric illness, except for some non-enteric illness outbreaks spread through contaminated food or water.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * NORS does not collect information on disease outbreaks that result from an exposure in a non-U.S. location. For example, an outbreak linked to people who became ill after eating a contaminated meal when traveling outside the country, even if the person became ill after returning to the United States.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health departments might not report all foodborne, waterborne, or enteric disease outbreaks to NORS. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Some outbreaks are never identified.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Some outbreaks are not investigated.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Some outbreak investigations cannot be completed.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * NORS Dashboard contains only information reported to NORS that CDC has reviewed.

How can I customize my search?

The default view for NORS Dashboard shows data for all types of outbreaks
reported to NORS.

You can customize your search in several ways. You can select the type or
types of outbreaks you would like to include:

![Main list from the NORS application.](/nors/images/app-index.jpg)

![Dropdown list from the NORS application.](/nors/images/app-dropdown.jpg)

Use the dropdown boxes in "Search Options" to make additional customizations:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **Year** : Specify a date range.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **State:** Choose individual states, or choose to include multistate or single state outbreaks only.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **Etiology (Cause):** Select which agents to include, such as _Salmonella_ or norovirus.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **Setting:** Select specific settings, such as long-term care facilities or restaurants.

For foodborne disease outbreaks, you can search by:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **Food/Ingredient:** Search by food, including those with more than one ingredient, and ingredients. Learn more >>

For waterborne disease outbreaks, you can select:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **Water Exposure:** Select one or more water exposures, such as treated recreational water or drinking water.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **Water Type:** Select types of venues or systems to include. Learn more >>

What's the difference between "Dashboard" and "Tabular" views?

Dashboard view displays information in a custom array of interactive graphs,
maps, and charts. Tabular view displays information in a table that you can
sort by numeric or alphabetical order by clicking on the column headers. Both
views display the search box, Quick Stats, and links to download data.

![Dashboard and Tabular views](/nors/images/dashboard-tabular.jpg)

What information does "Quick Stats" provide?

![Quick stats screenshot from NORS application.](/nors/images/app-quick-
stats.jpg)

In "Quick Stats -- Overall," you'll find the number of outbreaks, illnesses,
hospitalizations, and deaths for all outbreaks in NORS Dashboard. If you
perform a search, you'll see customized numbers for your search in "Quick
Stats -- Current Search."

How does NORS Dashboard display data on multistate outbreaks?

A multistate outbreak is defined as an outbreak in which exposures to the
implicated source (such as a food item or drinking water supply) occurred in
more than one state.

When a user searches NORS Dashboard for outbreaks in a particular state, NORS
Dashboard shows all single state outbreaks and multistate outbreaks in which
that state was involved. The number of illnesses listed for each multistate
outbreak represents the total number in _all_ states involved in the outbreak.
Similarly, the number of hospitalizations and deaths includes those for
**all** states with cases in the multistate outbreak.

Learn about selected multistate foodborne outbreak investigations involving
CDC since 2006 >>

What are single-state outbreaks?

![State drop down list from the NORS application.](/nors/images/app-state-
dropdown.jpg)

In a single-state outbreak, exposure to an outbreak source, such as a food or
swimming pool water, occurs in only one state. However, ill people may live in
states other than the one where they got infected.

Can I search for only multistate outbreaks or only single-state outbreaks?

Yes. To search for multistate outbreaks only, click "State" in the search box,
and select "Multistate outbreaks only." You also have the option to view
"Single-state outbreaks only."

How do I find out the number of cases in each state involved in a multistate
outbreak?

To see case counts by state for an outbreak:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1. Click on the "Tabular" view link on the upper right side of the screen:  
![Dashboard link from the NORS application.](/nors/images/app-dashboard.jpg)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2. Scroll down to see data based on your search criteria displayed on a table:  
![Search criteria from NORS application.](/nors/images/app-search-
criteria.jpg)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3. Click on the "Multistate" link in the "State" column for the outbreak of interest:  
![Multistate selection from NORS application.](/nors/images/app-
multistate.jpg)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4. You will then see a pop-up box that displays a U.S. map and a table that lists the states involved in the outbreak and the number of cases each state reported to NORS*. You may also use your mouse to hover over each state highlighted on the map to see the number of cases in those states.  

![Pop-up box that displays a U.S. map from NORS
application.](/nors/images/app-multistate-popup.jpg)

**Helpful Hint**

In the "Dashboard" view, you will see a U.S. map titled "Case Counts by State"
based on your search criteria and when you select "Multistate outbreaks only."

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Use your mouse to hover over each state highlighted on the map to see the total number of cases in that state.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Change the map display to "Tabular" to see a table that lists the number of outbreaks each state has been involved in and the cumulative number of cases reported to NORS* by each state.

![Case counts by state.](/nors/images/case-counts.jpg)

*For foodborne outbreaks, case counts by state were not collected until 2009, so outbreaks before 2009 will not have these numbers.

What is an etiology?

An etiology is the cause of the outbreak. NORS Dashboard lets you select genus
or name among bacterial, viral, parasitic, chemical, and toxic agents. You may
also select "unknown." To see all of information available about the
etiologies that you select, click on the Tabular view or click on the link to
download current search data.

How will I know if an etiology is confirmed or suspected?

When you download your search results or all NORS Dashboard data or look at
data using the "Tabular" view, you can see if the etiology of an outbreak was
confirmed or suspected.

In general, NORS reporting sites follow CDC's "Guide to Confirming an Etiology
in Foodborne Disease Outbreak" when determining whether the etiology is
confirmed or suspected. However, not all outbreak reports use these
definitions. NORS Dashboard's etiology data reflect what was reported to NORS
and reviewed by CDC.

How do I search for a specific food?

You can type a specific food into the "Food/Ingredient" field in the search
options. NORS Dashboard will search both the food and the contaminated
ingredient fields for your specified food. However, NORS Dashboard contains
more than 2,000 food names and variations, so searching on a single food name
may not provide complete information on all outbreaks linked to that type of
food. For example, outbreaks linked to contaminated beef in hamburgers could
be entered under beef, hamburger, or both. As a result, searching for "beef"
alone may not identify all outbreaks linked to beef hamburgers. You should
include all relevant variations of a specific food.

To see all of the food variables associated with your search, click on the
link to download current search data. This information is not visible in
tabular view. When you download search data, you also will see a food category
for each food and contaminated ingredient, if available.

Learn more about the Interagency Food Safety Analytics Collaboration (IFSAC)
food categories >>

What is the difference between the "Food Vehicle" and "Contaminated
Ingredient" categories in search returns?

A food vehicle is the contaminated food item a person ate before becoming
sick. It may contain more than one ingredient. When searching for a food, both
of these fields will be included in the search.

If a contaminated ingredient is listed in NORS Dashboard, it is more specific
than the food vehicle and is the specific food or ingredient in the food
vehicle that was implicated. For example, in August 2010, Michigan reported an
outbreak of 41 illnesses caused by _Salmonella_ serotype Javiana. Potato salad
was the food vehicle; yellow onion was the contaminated ingredient.

If a contaminated ingredient is not listed in NORS Dashboard, the food vehicle
category provides the best information available.

What is the difference between the "Water Exposure" and "Water Type"
categories in search returns?

The water exposure category describes how the people in the outbreak were
exposed to contaminated water. For example, the treated recreational water
category includes outbreaks that involve people who got ill after swimming in
a pool or another water venue.

The five water exposure categories in NORS are:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treated recreational water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Untreated recreational water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Drinking water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other/Environmental water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Undetermined water (for example, when multiple water exposures were suspected and no single exposure was confirmed as the exposure responsible for the outbreak).

The water type category describes the water venue (for example, swimming pool
or lake) or water system (such as a public water system or private well) that
contained or distributed the contaminated water.

Some waterborne disease outbreaks are caused by germs, such as _Legionella_ ,
that can grow inside the water pipes of a building. When drinking water
outbreaks caused by these germs are reported in NORS, the water type describes
the drinking water system that supplied the water to the building. This does
not necessarily mean that the water coming into the building was contaminated.

A water type may not be listed in NORS Dashboard, if it was not identified or
reported. In that situation, the water exposure category provides the best
information available about the source of the contaminated water.

What information does the "Water Status" field provide?

This field indicates whether waterborne disease outbreak report data has been
"cleaned" or "reviewed," as defined below. This field is available on
downloaded search data. The information is not displayed in the dashboard or
tabular views.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **" Cleaned":** CDC works with local, state, and territorial health departments to fill in missing information or correct possible errors before updating NORS Dashboard. This process occurs for all types of outbreaks reported in NORS Dashboard. Waterborne disease outbreak reports that have undergone this process are classified as "cleaned."
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **" Reviewed":** CDC and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency periodically review and publish national waterborne disease outbreak data. The review process may result in additional changes to report data through consultation with U.S. states and other reporting jurisdictions. Waterborne disease outbreak reports that have undergone this process are classified as "reviewed."

What is the difference between "Hospitalizations" and "Deaths" and "Info on
Hospitalizations" and "Info on Deaths" when using the "Tabular" view (or
looking at downloaded data)?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **Hospitalizations** : The number of hospitalizations reported
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **Info on Hospitalizations** ***** : The number of ill people for whom information on hospitalization is available
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **Deaths** : The number of deaths reported
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * **Info on Deaths ***: The number of ill people for whom information on death is available

Often, outbreak investigators can't obtain information for all the sick people
in the outbreak, so the "Info on Hospitalizations" or "Info on Deaths" numbers
may be smaller than the number of illnesses reported.

*These fields are not available for outbreaks that happened before 2009.

What happened to the Foodborne Outbreak Online Database (FOOD Tool)?

FOOD Tool, the web-based platform for searching CDC's Foodborne Disease
Outbreak Surveillance System, has been replaced by NORS Dashboard. Don't worry
-- all of the foodborne disease outbreak information available through FOOD
Tool can be accessed through NORS Dashboard.

How do I cite NORS Dashboard data?

To obtain a NORS dataset for publication -- including data for use in
scientific publications --email the NORS Dashboard mailbox.

Please use the following suggested citation to reference NORS Dashboard data:

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). National Outbreak Reporting
System Dashboard. Atlanta, Georgia: U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services, CDC. Last accessed <date, e.g., 05Jan2018>. Available from URL:
wwwn.cdc.gov/norsdashboard.

Top of Page

Page last reviewed: December 13, 2019

Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases,
Division of Viral Diseases

home National Outbreak Reporting System (NORS)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About NORS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Forms & Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Training Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * NORSDirect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * NORS Data expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * NORS BasicsÂ 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * NORS Dashboard expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Using NORS Dashboard
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Data Availability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Using NORS Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other Systems Linked to NORS

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[13 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[April 2 at 6:03 AM]: Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 6:03 AM
  *[15 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 11:01 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[10 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:37 PM

