Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000049.htm    
                                Description: Choking is when someone is having a very hard time breathing because food, a toy, or other object is blocking the throat or windpipe (airway).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Choking - adult or child over 1 year

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000049.htm

# Choking - adult or child over 1 year

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Choking is when someone is having a very hard time breathing because food, a
toy, or other object is blocking the throat or windpipe (airway).

A choking person's airway may be blocked so that not enough oxygen reaches the
lungs. Without oxygen, brain damage can occur in as little as 4 to 6 minutes.
Rapid first aid for choking can save a person's life.

## Causes

Choking can be caused by any of the following:

      * Eating too fast, not chewing food well, or eating with dentures that do not fit well
      * Drinking alcohol (even a small amount of alcohol affects awareness)
      * Being unconscious and breathing in vomit
      * Breathing in small objects (young children)
      * Injury to the head and face (for example, swelling, bleeding, or a deformity can cause choking)
      * Swallowing problems after a stroke
      * Enlarging tonsils or tumors of the neck and throat
      * Problems with the esophagus (food pipe or swallowing tube) 

## Symptoms

When an older child or adult is choking, they willÂ often grab their throat
with the hand. If the person does notÂ do this, look for these danger signs:

      * Inability to speak
      * Difficulty breathing
      * Noisy breathing or high-pitched sounds while inhaling
      * Weak, ineffective coughing 
      * Bluish skin color
      * Loss of consciousness (unresponsiveness) if blockage is not cleared  

## First Aid

First ask, "Are you choking? Can you speak?" DO NOT perform first aid if the
person is coughing forcefully and is able to speak. A strong cough can
dislodge the object. Encourage the person to keep coughing to dislodge the
object.

If the person cannot speak or is having a hard time breathing, you need to act
fast to help the person. You can perform abdominal thrusts, back blows, or
both.

To perform abdominal thrusts (Heimlich maneuver):

      1. Stand behind the person and wrap your arms around the person's waist. For a child, you may have to kneel.
      2. Make a fist with one hand. Place the thumb side of your fist just above the person's navel, well below the breastbone.
      3. Grasp the fist tightly with your other hand.
      4. Make a quick, upward and inward thrust with your fist.
      5. Check if the object is dislodged.
      6. Continue these thrusts until the object is dislodged or the person loses consciousness (see below). 

To perform back blows:

      1. Stand behind the person. For child, you may have to kneel.
      2. Wrap one arm around to support the person's upper body. Lean the person forward until the chest is about parallel to the ground.
      3. Use the heel of your other hand to deliver a firm blow between the person's shoulder blades.
      4. Check if the object is dislodged.
      5. Continue back blows until the object is dislodged or the person loses consciousness (see below). 

To perform abdominal thrusts AND back blows (5-and-5 approach):

      1. Give 5 back blows, as described above.
      2. If the object is not dislodged, give 5 abdominal thrusts.
      3. Keep performing the 5-and-5 until the object is dislodged or the person loses consciousness (see below). 

IF THE PERSON FAINTS OR LOSES CONSCIOUSNESS

      * Lower the person to the floor.
      * Call 911 or the local emergency number or tell someone else to do so.
      * Begin CPR. Chest compressions may help dislodge the object.
      * If you see something blocking the airway and it is loose, try to remove it. If the object is lodged in the person's throat, DO NOT try to grasp it. This can push the object farther into the airway. 

FOR PREGNANT OR OBESE PEOPLE

      1. Wrap your arms around the person's CHEST.
      2. Place your fist on the MIDDLE of the breastbone between the nipples.
      3. Make firm, backward thrusts. 

After removing the object that caused the choking, keep the person still and
get medical help. Anyone who is choking should have a medical examination.
Complications can occur not only from the choking, but also from the first aid
measures that were taken.

## DO NOT

      * DO NOT interfere if the person is coughing forcefully, is able to speak, or is able to breathe in and out adequately. But, be ready to act right away if the person's symptoms get worse.
      * DO NOT force open the person's mouth to try to grasp and pull out the object if the person is conscious. Perform abdominal thrusts and/or back blows to try to expel the object. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Seek medical help right away if you find someone unconscious.

When the person is choking:

      * Tell someone to call 911 or the local emergency number while you begin first aid/CPR.
      * If you are alone, shout for help and begin first aid/CPR. 

After the object is successfully dislodged, the person should see a doctor
because complications can arise.

In the days following a choking episode, contact a doctor right away if the
person develops:

      * A cough that does not go away
      * Fever
      * Difficulty swallowing or speaking
      * Shortness of breath
      * Wheezing

The above signs may indicate:

      * The object entered the lung instead of being expelled
      * Injury to the voice box (larynx) 

## Prevention

To prevent choking:

      * Eat slowly and chew food thoroughly.
      * Make sure dentures fit properly.
      * Do not drink too much alcohol before or during eating.
      * Keep small objects away from young children.

## Alternative Names

Abdominal thrusts - adult or child over 1 year; Heimlich maneuver - adult or
child over 1 year; Choking - back blows - adult or child over 1 year

## Images

      * ![Choking](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17107t.jpg)Choking first aid - adult or child over 1 year - series

## References

American Red Cross. _First Aid/CPR/AED Participant's Manual_. 2nd ed. Dallas,
TX: American Red Cross; 2016.

Atkins DL, Berger S, Duff JP, et al. Part 11: Pediatric basic life support and
cardiopulmonary resuscitation quality: 2015 American Heart Association
guidelines update for cardiopulmonary resuscitation and emergency
cardiovascular care. _Circulation_. 2015;132(18 Suppl 2):S519-S525. PMID:
26472999 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26472999.

Easter JS, Scott HF. Pediatric resuscitation. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 163.

Kleinman ME, Brennan EE, Goldberger ZD, et al. Part 5: Adult basic life
support and cardiopulmonary resuscitation quality: 2015 American Heart
Association guidelines update for cardiopulmonary resuscitation and emergency
cardiovascular care. _Circulation_. 2015;132(18 Suppl 2):S414-S435. PMID:
26472993 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26472993.

Kurz MC, Neumar RW. Adult resuscitation. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 8.

Thomas SH, Goodloe JM. Foreign bodies. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 53.

## Review Date 1/12/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Choking](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Choking_thumb.jpg)Choking _Read
more_

![A photograph of a man administering first aid to a
woman](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TI_FirstAid_thumb.jpg)First Aid _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

