Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000048.htm    
                                Description: &#10;&#10;Choking is when someone cannot breathe because food, a toy, or other object is blocking the throat or windpipe (airway).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Choking - infant under 1 year

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000048.htm

# Choking - infant under 1 year

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Choking is when someone cannot breathe because food, a toy, or other object is
blocking the throat or windpipe (airway).

This article discusses choking in infants.  

## Causes

Choking in infants is usually caused by breathing in a small object that the
baby has placed in their mouth, such as a button, coin, balloon, toy part, or
watch battery.

Choking may result from a complete or partial blockage of the airway.

      * A complete blockage is a medical emergency.
      * A partial blockage can quickly become life threatening if the baby cannot get enough air.

When a person does not get enough air, permanent brain damage can occur in as
little as 4 minutes. Rapid first aid for choking can save a life.

## Symptoms

The danger signs of choking are:

      * Bluish skin color
      * Difficulty breathing -- ribs and chest pull inward
      * Loss of consciousness (unresponsiveness) if blockage is not cleared
      * Inability to cry or make much sound
      * Weak, ineffective coughing
      * Soft or high-pitched sounds while inhaling

## First Aid

DO NOT perform these steps if the infant is coughing hard or has a strong cry.
Strong coughs and cries can help push the object out of the airway.

If your child is not coughing forcefully or does not have a strong cry, follow
these steps:

      1. Lay the infant face down, along your forearm. Use your thigh or lap for support. Hold the infant's chest in your hand and the jaw with your fingers. Point the infant's head downward, lower than the body.
      2. Give up to 5 quick, forceful blows between the infant's shoulder blades. Use the palm of your free hand.

If the object does not come out of the airway after 5 blows:

      1. Turn the infant face-up. Use your thigh or lap for support. Support the head.
      2. Place 2 fingers on the middle of the breastbone just below the nipples.
      3. Give up to 5 quick thrusts down, compressing the chest one third to one half the depth of the chest.
      4. Continue 5 back blows followed by 5 chest thrusts until the object is dislodged or the infant loses alertness (becomes unconscious).

IF THE INFANT LOSES ALERTNESS

If the child becomes unresponsive, stops breathing, or turns blue:

      * Shout for help.
      * Give infant CPR. Call 911 after 1 minute of CPR.
      * If you can see the object blocking the airway, try to remove it with your finger. Try to remove an object only if you can see it.

## DO NOT

      * DO NOT perform choking first aid if the infant is coughing forcefully, has a strong cry, or is breathing enough. However, be ready to act if the symptoms get worse.
      * DO NOT try to grasp and pull out the object if the infant is alert (conscious).
      * DO NOT do back blows and chest thrusts if the infant stops breathing for other reasons, such as asthma, infection, swelling, or a blow to the head. Do give the infant CPR in these cases.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If an infant is choking:

      * Tell someone to call 911 while you begin first aid.
      * If you are alone, shout for help and begin first aid.

Always call your doctor after a child has been choking, even if you
successfully remove the object from the airway and the infant seems fine.

## Prevention

To prevent choking in an infant:

      * Do not give children under 3 years old balloons or toys with small parts that can break off. 
      * Keep infants away from buttons, popcorn, coins, grapes, nuts, and other small items. 
      * Watch infants and toddlers while they are eating. Do not allow a child to crawl around while eating.
      * The earliest safety lesson is "No!"

## Images

      * ![Heimlich maneuver on infant](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18155t.jpg)Choking first aid - infant under 1 year - series

## References

Atkins DL, Berger S, Duff JP, et al. Part 11: Pediatric basic life support and
cardiopulmonary resuscitation quality: 2015 American Heart Association
guidelines update for cardiopulmonary resuscitation and emergency
cardiovascular care. _Circulation_. 2015;132(18 Suppl 2):S519-S525. PMID:
26472999 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26472999.

Rose E. Pediatric respiratory emergencies: upper airway obstruction and
infections. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's
Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 167.

Thomas SH, Goodloe JM. Foreign bodies. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 53.

## Review Date 1/12/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Choking](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Choking_thumb.jpg)Choking _Read
more_

![A photograph of a man administering first aid to a
woman](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TI_FirstAid_thumb.jpg)First Aid _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

