Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003017.htm    
                                Description: Emergency airway puncture is the placement of a hollow needle into the airway in the throat. It is done to treat life-threatening choking.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Emergency airway puncture

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003017.htm

# Emergency airway puncture

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Emergency airway puncture is the placement of a hollow needle into the airway
in the throat. It is done to treat life-threatening choking.

## Description

Emergency airway puncture is done in an emergency situation, when someone is
choking and all other efforts to assist with breathing have failed.

      * A hollow needle or tube can be inserted into the throat, just below the Adam's apple (thyroid cartilage), into the airway. The needle passes between the thyroid cartilage and the cricoid cartilage.
      * In a hospital, before inserting the needle, a small cut may be made in the skin and the membrane between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

A cricothyrotomy is an emergency procedure to relieve an airway obstruction
until surgery can be done to place a breathing tube (tracheostomy).

If the airway blockage occurs with trauma to the head, neck, or spine, care
must be taken to avoid further injury to the person.

## Risks

Risks for this procedure include:

      * Injury to the voice box (larynx), thyroid gland, or esophagus

Risks for any surgery are:

      * Bleeding
      * Infection

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well the person does depends on the cause of the airway blockage and how
quickly the person receives proper breathing support. Emergency airway
puncture provides enoughÂ breathing support for only a very short period of
time.

## Alternative Names

Needle cricothyrotomy

## Images

      * ![Emergency airway puncture](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17166t.jpg)Emergency airway puncture
      * ![Cricoid cartilage](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8997t.jpg)Cricoid cartilage
      * ![Emergency airway puncture - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/12668t.jpg)Emergency airway puncture - series

## References

Cattano D, Piacentini AGG, Cavallone LF. Percutaneous emergency airway access.
In: Hagberg CA, Artime CA, Aziz MF, eds. _Hagberg and Benumof's Airway
Management_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 27.

Herbert RB, Thomas D. Cricothyrotomy and percutaneous translaryngeal
ventilation. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and
Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 6.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Choking](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Choking_thumb.jpg)Choking _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

