Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000206.htm    
                                Description: A full liquid diet is made up only of fluids and foods that are normally liquid and foods that turn to liquid when they are at room temperature, like ice cream. It also includes:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Full liquid diet

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000206.htm

# Full liquid diet

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A full liquid diet is made up only of fluids and foods that are normally
liquid and foods that turn to liquid when they are at room temperature, like
ice cream. It also includes:

      * Strained creamy soups
      * Tea
      * Juice
      * Jell-O
      * Milkshakes
      * Pudding
      * Popsicles 

You can not eat solid foods when you are on a full liquid diet.

## Why You May Need This Diet

You may need to be on a full liquid diet right before a medical test or
procedure, or before certain kinds of surgery. It is important to follow the
diet exactly to avoid problems with your procedure or surgery or your test
results.

You also may need to be on a full liquid diet for a little while after you
have had surgery on your stomach or intestine. You may also need to be on this
diet if you are having trouble swallowing or chewing. If you are prescribed
this diet for dysphagia (swallowing problems), your speech pathologist will
give you more specific guidelines. Sometimes the full liquid diet is a step
between a clear liquid diet to your regular diet.

## What You Can Eat and Drink

You can eat or drink only things that are liquid. You may have these foods and
drinks:

      * Water
      * Fruit juices, including nectars and juices with pulp
      * Butter, margarine, oil, cream, custard, and pudding
      * Plain ice cream, frozen yogurt, and sherbet
      * Fruit ices and popsicles
      * Sugar, honey, and syrups
      * Soup broth (bouillon, consommÃ©, and strained cream soups, but no solids)
      * Sodas, such as ginger ale and Sprite
      * Gelatin (Jell-O)
      * Boost, Ensure, Resource, and other liquid supplements
      * Tea or coffee with cream or milk and sugar or honey 

Ask your doctor or dietitian if you can include these foods in your full
liquid diet:

      * Cooked, refined cereals, such as cream of rice, oatmeal, grits, or farina (Cream of Wheat)
      * Strained meats, like the ones in baby food
      * Potatoes pureed in soup 

Do not eat any kind of cheese, fruit (fresh, frozen, or canned), meat, and
cereals that are not on your "OK" list.

Also, do not eat raw or cooked vegetables. And, do not eat ice cream or other
frozen desserts that have any solids in them or on top, such as nuts,
chocolate chips, and cookie pieces.

Try having a mix of 5 to 7 of the foods you can eat for breakfast, lunch, and
dinner.

Liquid foods do not include mashed foods, such as mashed potato or avocado.

Eating only a full liquid diet can give you enough energy, protein, and fat.
But it does not give you enough fiber. Also, you may not get all the vitamins
and minerals you need. So, your doctor may recommend that you take certain
vitamins and supplements.

This diet is safe for people with diabetes, but only when they are followed
closely by their doctor.

## Adding More Calories

For most people on a full liquid diet, the goal is to get 1,350 to 1,500
calories and 45 grams of protein a day.

If you need to be on a full liquid diet for a long time, you will need to be
under the care of dietitian. Ask your doctor if you can eat these foods
together to add calories:

      * Nonfat dry milk added to your drinks
      * Protein powders or liquid or powdered egg whites added to drinks
      * Instant breakfast powder added to milk, puddings, custards, and milkshakes
      * Strained meats (like the ones in baby food) added to broths
      * Butter or margarine added to hot cereal and soups
      * Sugar or syrup added to beverages

## Alternative Names

Surgery - full liquid diet; Medical test - full liquid diet

## References

Compass Group. Full liquid diet. Manual of Clinical Nutrition Management.
bscn2k15.weebly.com/uploads/1/2/9/2/12924787/manual_of_clinical_nutrition2013.pdf.
Updated 2013. Accessed August 2, 2018.

Schattner MA, Grossman EB. Nutritional management. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 6.

## Read More

      * Diarrhea - overview
      * Food poisoning
      * Intestinal obstruction and Ileus
      * Nausea and vomiting - adults

## Patient Instructions

      * After chemotherapy - discharge
      * Bland diet
      * Changing your ostomy pouch
      * Clear liquid diet
      * Gallstones - discharge
      * Intestinal or bowel obstruction - discharge
      * Large bowel resection - discharge
      * Low-fiber diet
      * Pancreatitis - discharge
      * Small bowel resection - discharge
      * Total colectomy or proctocolectomy - discharge
      * When you have diarrhea
      * When you have nausea and vomiting

## Review Date 7/14/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CNSC, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * After Surgery

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

