Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000440.htm    
                                Description: After surgery it is important to take an active role in your recovery. One way to do so is by doing deep breathing exercises.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Deep breathing after surgery

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000440.htm

# Deep breathing after surgery

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

After surgery it is important to take an active role in your recovery. One way
to do so is by doing deep breathing exercises.

Deep breathing keeps your lungs well-inflated and healthy while you heal and
helps prevent lung problems, like pneumonia.

## How to Breathe Deeply

Many people feel weak and sore after surgery and taking big breaths can be
uncomfortable. A device called an incentive spirometer can help you take deep
breaths correctly. If you do not have this device, you can still practice deep
breathing on your own.

Following measures should be taken:

      * Sit upright. It may help to sit at the edge of the bed with your feet hanging over the side. If you cannot sit like this, raise the head of your bed as high as you can.
      * If your surgical cut (incision) is on your chest or belly, you may need to hold a pillow tightly over your incision. This helps with some of the discomfort.
      * Take a few normal breaths, then take a slow, deep breath in.
      * Hold your breath for about 2 to 5 seconds.
      * Gently and slowly breathe out through your mouth. Make an "O" shape with your lips as you blow out, like blowing out birthday candles.
      * Repeat 10 to 15 times, or as many times as your doctor or nurse told you.
      * Do these deep-breathing exercises as directed by your doctor or nurse. 

## Alternative Names

Lung complications - deep breathing exercises; Pneumonia - deep breathing
exercises

## References

do Nascimento Junior P, Modolo NS, Andrade S, Guimaraes MM, Braz LG, El Dib R.
Incentive spirometry for prevention of postoperative pulmonary complications
in upper abdominal surgery. _Cochrane Database Sys Rev_. 2014;(2):CD006058.
PMID: 24510642 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24510642.

Kulaylat MN, Dayton MT. Surgical complications. In: Townsend CM, Beauchamp RD,
Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis
of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
12.

## Review Date 11/20/2017

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A. M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * After Surgery

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

