Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000174.htm    
                                Description: After surgery, it is normal to feel a little weak. Getting out of bed after surgery is not always easy, but spending time out of bed will help you heal faster.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Getting out of bed after surgery

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000174.htm

# Getting out of bed after surgery

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

After surgery, it is normal to feel a little weak. Getting out of bed after
surgery is not always easy, but spending time out of bed will help you heal
faster.

## Getting out of bed

Try to get out of bed at least 2 to 3 times a day to sit in a chair or take a
short walk when your nurse says it is OK.

Your doctor may have a physical therapist or assistant to teach you how to get
out of bed safely.

Make sure you are taking the right amount of pain medicines at the right time
to reduce your pain. Tell your nurse if getting out of bed causes a lot of
pain.

## Steps to Take

Make sure someone is with you for safety and support in the beginning.

To get out of bed:

      * Roll onto your side.
      * Bend your knees until your legs are hanging over the side of the bed.
      * Use your arms to lift your upper body up so that you are sitting on the edge of the bed.
      * Push off with your arms to stand up. 

Stay still for a moment to make sure you are steady. Focus on an object in the
room that you can walk to. If you feel dizzy, sit back down.

To get back into bed:

      * Sit on the edge of the bed.
      * Gently swing your legs back onto the bed.
      * Use your arms for support as you lie down on your side
      * Roll onto your back. 

## Movements in bed

You can also move around in bed. Change your position at least every 2 hours.
Shift from your back to your side. Alternate sides each time you shift.

Try ankle pump exercises in bed every 2 hours by bending your ankles up and
down for a few minutes.

If you were taught coughing and deep breathing exercises, practice them for 10
to 15 minutes every 2 hours. Place your hands on your stomach, then your ribs,
and breathe deeply, feeling the stomach wall and rib cage move.

Put on your compression stockings in bed if your nurse asks you to. This will
help with your circulation and recovery.

## When to Call the Doctor

Use the call button to call your nurse if you have trouble (pain, dizziness,
or weakness) getting out of bed.

## References

Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Aebersold M, Gonzalez L. Exercise and
ambulation. In: Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M, eds.
_Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills_. 9th ed. New York, NY:
Pearson; 2017:chap 13.

Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Aebersold M, Gonzalez L. Perioperative care.
In: Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M, eds. _Clinical
Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills_. 9th ed. New York, NY: Pearson;
2017:chap 26.

## Patient Instructions

      * Gallbladder removal - open - discharge
      * Gastric bypass surgery - discharge 
      * Hysterectomy - abdominal - discharge
      * Intestinal or bowel obstruction - discharge
      * Large bowel resection - discharge
      * Open spleen removal in adults - discharge
      * Small bowel resection - discharge
      * Total colectomy or proctocolectomy - discharge
      * Urinary incontinence surgery - female - discharge 

## Review Date 9/3/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * After Surgery

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

