Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000205.htm    
                                Description: A clear liquid diet is made up of only clear fluids and foods that are clear fluids when they are at room temperature. It includes things such as:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Clear liquid diet

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000205.htm

# Clear liquid diet

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A clear liquid diet is made up of only clear fluids and foods that are clear
fluids when they are at room temperature. It includes things such as:

      * Clear broth
      * Tea
      * Cranberry juice
      * Jell-O
      * Popsicles

## Why You May Need This Diet

You may need to be on a clear liquid diet right before a medical test or
procedure, or before certain kinds of surgery. It is important to follow the
diet exactly to avoid problems with your procedure or surgery or your test
results.

You also may need to be on a clear liquid diet for a little while after you
have had surgery on your stomach or intestine. You may also be instructed to
follow this diet if you:

      * Have diarrhea
      * Are throwing up
      * Are sick to your stomach 

## What You Can Eat and Drink

You can eat or drink only the things you can see through. These include:

      * Plain water
      * Fruit juices without pulp, such as grape juice, filtered apple juice, and cranberry juice
      * Soup broth (bouillon or consommÃ©)
      * Clear sodas, such as ginger ale and Sprite
      * Gelatin
      * Popsicles that do not have bits of fruit, fruit pulp, or yogurt in them
      * Tea or coffee with no cream or milk added
      * Sports drinks that don't have color

These foods and liquids are NOT OK:

      * Juice with nectar or pulp, such as prune juice
      * Milk and yogurt

Try having a mix of 3 to 5 of these choices for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
It is OK to add sugar and lemon to your tea.

Your doctor might ask you to avoid liquids that have red coloring for some
tests, such as a colonoscopy.

DO NOT follow this diet without the supervision of your doctor. Healthy people
should not be on this diet longer than 3 to 4 days.

This diet is safe for people with diabetes, but only for a short time when
they are followed closely by their doctor.

## Alternative Names

Surgery - clear liquid diet; Medical test - clear liquid diet

## References

Compass Group. Clear liquid diet. Manual of Clinical Nutrition Management.
bscn2k15.weebly.com/uploads/1/2/9/2/12924787/manual_of_clinical_nutrition2013.pdf.
Updated 2013. Accessed August 2, 2018.

Schattner MA, Grossman EB. Nutritional management. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 6.

## Read More

      * Diarrhea - overview
      * Esophagectomy - minimally invasive
      * Esophagectomy - open
      * Food poisoning
      * Intestinal obstruction and Ileus
      * Nausea and vomiting - adults

## Patient Instructions

      * After chemotherapy - discharge
      * Bland diet
      * Esophagectomy - discharge 
      * Full liquid diet
      * Gallstones - discharge
      * Low-fiber diet
      * Pancreatitis - discharge
      * When you have diarrhea
      * When you have nausea and vomiting

## Review Date 7/14/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CNSC, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * After Surgery
      * Diarrhea
      * Nausea and Vomiting

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

