Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000406.htm    
                                Description: Pain that occurs after surgery is an important concern. Before your surgery, you and your surgeon may have discussed how much pain you should expect and how it will be managed.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Postsurgical pain treatment in adults

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000406.htm

# Postsurgical pain treatment in adults

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pain that occurs after surgery is an important concern. Before your surgery,
you and your surgeon may have discussed how much pain you should expect and
how it will be managed.

Several factors determine how much pain you have and how to manage it:

      * Different types of surgeries and surgical cuts (incisions) cause different types and amounts of pain afterward.
      * A longer and more invasive surgery, besides causing more pain, can take more out of you. Recovering from these other effects of surgery can make it harder to deal with the pain.
      * Each person feels and reacts to pain differently. 

Controlling your pain is important for your recovery. Good pain control is
needed so you can get up and begin to move around. This is important because:

      * It lowers your risk for blood clots in your legs or lungs, as well as lung and urinary infections.
      * You will have a shorter hospital stay so that you go home sooner, where you are likely to recover more quickly.
      * You are less likely to have lingering chronic pain problems. 

## Your Role in Controlling the Pain

There are many types of pain medicines. Depending on the surgery and your
overall health, you may receive a single medicine or a combination of
medicines.

Studies show that people who use pain medicine after surgery to control pain
often use fewer pain medicines than those who try to avoid pain medicine.

Your job as a patient is to tell your health care providers when you are
having pain and if the medicines you are receiving control your pain.

## Patient Controlled Anesthesia (PCA)

Right after surgery, you may receive pain medicines directly into your veins
through an intravenous (IV) line. This line runs through a pump. The pump is
set to give you a certain amount of pain medicine.

Often, you can push a button to give yourself more pain relief when you need
it. This is called patient controlled anesthesia (PCA) because you manage how
much extra medicine you receive. It is programmed so you cannot give yourself
too much.

## Epidural Pain Control

Epidural pain medicines are delivered through a soft tube (catheter). The tube
is inserted into your back into the small space just outside the spinal cord.
The pain medicine can be given to you continuously or in small doses through
the tube.

You may come out of surgery with this catheter already in place. Or a doctor
(anesthesiologist) inserts the catheter into your lower back while you lay on
your side in the hospital bed after your surgery.

Risks of epidural blocks are rare but may include:

      * Drop in blood pressure. Fluids are given through a vein (IV) to help keep your blood pressure stable.
      * Headache, dizziness, difficulty breathing, or seizure. 

## Pain Pills or Shots

Narcotic (opioid) pain medicine taken as pills or given as a shot may provide
enough pain relief. You may receive this medicine right away after surgery.
More often, you receive it when you no longer need epidural or continuous IV
medicine.

Ways you receive pills or shots include:

      * On a regular schedule, where you do not need to ask for them
      * Only when you ask your nurse for them
      * Only at certain times, such as when you get up out of bed to walk in the hallway or go to physical therapy 

Most pills or shots provide relief for 4 to 6 hours or longer. If the
medicines do not manage your pain well enough, ask your provider about:

      * Receiving a pill or shot more often
      * Receiving a stronger dose
      * Changing to a different medicine 

Instead of using opioid pain medicine, your surgeon may have you take
acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen (Advil or Motrin) to control pain. In
many cases, these non-opioid painkillers are just as effective as narcotics.
They also help you avoid the risk of misuse of and addiction to opioids.

## Alternative Names

Postoperative pain relief

## Images

      * ![Pain medications](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9716t.jpg)Pain medicines

## References

Benzon HA, Shah RD, Benzon HT. Perioperative nonopioid infusions for
postoperative pain management. In: Benzon HT, Raja SN, Liu SS, Fishman SM,
Cohen SP, eds. _Essentials of Pain Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 12.

Chou R, Gordon DB, de Leon-Casasola OA, et al. Management of postoperative
pain: a clinical practice guideline from the American Pain Society, the
American Society of Regional Anesthesia and Pain Medicine, and the American
Society of Anesthesiologists' Committee on Regional Anesthesia, Executive
Committee, and Administrative Council. _J Pain_. 2016;17(2):131-157. PMID:
26827847 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26827847.

Gabriel RA, Swisher MW, Sztain JF, Furnish TJ, Ilfeld BM, Said ET. State of
the art opioid-sparing strategies for post-operative pain in adult surgical
patients. _Expert Opin Pharmacother_. 2019;20(8):949-961. PMID: 30810425
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30810425.

Hernandez A, Sherwood ER. Anesthesiology principles, pain management, and
conscious sedation. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL,
eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis of Modern Surgical
Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 14.

## Review Date 6/15/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * After Surgery

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

