Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000432.htm    
                                Description: Getting your home ready after you have been in the hospital often requires much preparation.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Getting your home ready - after the hospital

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000432.htm

# Getting your home ready - after the hospital

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Getting your home ready after you have been in the hospital often requires
much preparation.

Set up your home to make your life easier and safer when you return. Ask your
doctor, nurses, or physical therapist about getting your home ready for your
return.

If your hospital stay is planned, prepare your home in advance. If your
hospital stay was unplanned, have family or friends prepare your home for you.
You may not need all of the changes listed below. But read carefully for some
good ideas on how you can remain safe and healthy in your home.

## Make It Easy for Yourself

Make sure everything you need is easy to get to and on the same floor where
you will spend most of your time.

      * Set up your bed on the first floor (or the entry floor) if you can.
      * Have a bathroom or a portable commode on the same floor where you will spend most of your day.
      * Stock up on canned or frozen food, toilet paper, shampoo, and other personal items.
      * Either buy or make single meals that can be frozen and reheated.
      * Make sure you can reach everything you need without getting on your tiptoes or bending down.
      * Put food and other supplies in a cupboard that is between your waist and shoulder level.
      * Place glasses, silverware, and other items you use often on the kitchen counter.
      * Make sure you can get to your phone. A cell phone or wireless phone can be helpful. 

Place a chair with a firm back in the kitchen, bedroom, bathroom, and other
rooms you will use. This way, you can sit when you do your daily tasks.

If you will be using a walker, attach a small basket to hold your phone, a
notepad, a pen, and other things you will need to have close by. You can also
wear fanny pack.

## Get Some Help

You may need help with bathing, using the toilet, cooking, running errands,
shopping, going to the doctor, and exercising.

If you do not have someone to help you at home for the first 1 or 2 weeks
after your hospital stay, ask your health care provider about having a trained
caregiver come to your home to help you. This person can also check the safety
of your home and help you with your daily activities.

Some items that may be helpful include:

      * Shower sponge with a long handle
      * Shoehorn with a long handle
      * Cane, crutches, or a walker
      * Reacher to help you pick up things from the floor or put on your pants
      * Sock aid to help you put on your socks
      * Handle bars in the bathroom to help steady yourself 

## Bathroom Setup

Raising the toilet seat height may make things easier for you. You can do this
by adding an elevated seat to your toilet. You can also use a commode chair
instead of a toilet.

You may need to have safety bars, or grab bars, in your bathroom:

      * Grab bars should be secured vertically or horizontally to the wall, not diagonally.
      * Install grab bars to help you get in and out of the tub.
      * Install grab bars to help you sit down and get up from the toilet.
      * DO NOT use towel racks as grab bars. They cannot support your weight. 

You can make several changes to protect yourself when you take a bath or
shower:

      * Put non-slip suction mats or rubber silicone decals in the tub to prevent falls.
      * Use a non-skid bath mat outside the tub for firm footing.
      * Keep the floor outside the tub or shower dry.
      * Place soap and shampoo where you do not need to stand up, reach, or twist to get it. 

Sit on a bath or shower chair when taking a shower:

      * Make sure it has non-skid rubber tips on the legs.
      * Buy a seat without arms if it is placed in a bathtub. 

## Avoiding Falls

Keep tripping hazards out of your home.

      * Remove loose wires or cords from areas you walk through to get from one room to another.
      * Remove loose throw rugs.
      * Fix any uneven flooring in doorways.
      * Use good lighting in doorways.
      * Have night lights placed in hallways and rooms that are dark. 

Pets that are small or move around your walk space may cause you to trip. For
the first few weeks you are home, consider having your pet stay elsewhere,
such as with a friend, in a kennel, or in the yard.

DO NOT carry anything when you are walking around. You need your hands to help
you balance.

Practice using a cane, walker, crutches, or a wheelchair while:

      * Sitting down to use the toilet and stand up after using the toilet
      * Getting in and out of the shower 

## References

Studenski S, Van Swearingen JV. Falls. In: Fillit HM, Rockwood K, Young J,
eds. _Brocklehurst's Textbook of Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 103.

## Review Date 5/8/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * After Surgery

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

