Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000451.htm    
                                Description: An incentive spirometer is a device used to help you keep your lungs healthy after surgery or when you have a lung illness, such as pneumonia. Using the incentive spirometer teaches you how to take slow    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Using an incentive spirometer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000451.htm

# Using an incentive spirometer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An incentive spirometer is a device used to help you keep your lungs healthy
after surgery or when you have a lung illness, such as pneumonia. Using the
incentive spirometer teaches you how to take slow deep breaths.

Deep breathing keeps your lungs well-inflated and healthy while you heal and
helps prevent lung problems, like pneumonia.

## How to use an Incentive Spirometer

Many people feel weak and sore after surgery and taking big breaths can be
uncomfortable. A device called an incentive spirometer can help you take deep
breaths correctly.

By using the incentive spirometer every 1 to 2 hours, or as instructed by your
nurse or doctor, you can take an active role in your recovery and keep your
lungs healthy.

To use the spirometer:

      * Sit up and hold the device.
      * Place the mouthpiece spirometer in your mouth. Make sure you make a good seal over the mouthpiece with your lips.
      * Breathe out (exhale) normally.
      * Breathe in (inhale) **SLOWLY**.

A piece in the incentive spirometer will rise as you breathe in.

      * Try to get this piece to rise as high as you can.
      * Usually, there is a marker placed by your doctor that tells you how big of a breath you should take.

A smaller piece in the spirometer looks like a ball or disc.

      * Your goal should be to make sure this ball stays in the middle of the chamber while you breathe in.
      * If you breathe in too fast, the ball will shoot to the top.
      * If you breathe in too slowly, the ball will stay at the bottom.

Hold your breath for 3 to 5 seconds. Then slowly exhale.

 **Take 10 to 15 breaths with your spirometer every 1 to 2 hours, or as often
as instructed by your nurse or doctor**.

## Other Tips

These tips may be helpful:

      * If you have a surgical cut (incision) in your chest or abdomen, you may need to hold a pillow tightly to your belly while breathing in. This will help ease discomfort.
      * If you do not make the number marked for you, do not get discouraged. You will improve with practice and as your body heals.
      * If you start to feel dizzy or lightheaded, remove the mouthpiece from your mouth and take some normal breaths. Then continue using the incentive spirometer.

## Alternative Names

Lung complications - incentive spirometer; Pneumonia - incentive spirometer

## References

do Nascimento Junior P, Modolo NS, Andrade S, Guimaraes MM, Braz LG, El Dib R.
Incentive spirometry for prevention of postoperative pulmonary complications
in upper abdominal surgery. _Cochrane Database Syst Rev_. 2014;(2):CD006058.
PMID: 24510642 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24510642.

Kulaylat MN, Dayton MT. Surgical complications. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological
Basis of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 12.

## Review Date 11/20/2017

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * After Surgery

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

