Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000075.htm    
                                Description: Pulmonary veno-occlusive disease (PVOD) is a very rare disease. It leads to high blood pressure in the lung arteries (pulmonary hypertension).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pulmonary veno-occlusive disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000075.htm

# Pulmonary veno-occlusive disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pulmonary veno-occlusive disease (PVOD) is a very rare disease. It leads to
high blood pressure in the lung arteries (pulmonary hypertension).

## Causes

In most cases, the cause of PVOD is unknown. The high blood pressure occurs in
the pulmonary arteries. These lung arteries are directly connected to the
right side of the heart.

The condition may be related to a viral infection. It may occur as a
complication of certain diseases such as lupus, or bone marrow
transplantation.

The disorder is most common among children and young adults. As the disease
gets worse, it causes:

      * Narrowed pulmonary veins
      * Pulmonary artery hypertension
      * Congestion and swelling of the lungs

Possible risk factors for PVOD include:

      * Family history of the condition
      * Smoking
      * Exposure to substances like trichloroethylene or chemotherapy medicines
      * Systemic sclerosis (autoimmune skin disorder)

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

      * Shortness of breath
      * Dry cough
      * Fatigue on exertion
      * Fainting
      * Coughing up blood
      * Difficulty breathing while lying flat

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you and ask about your medical history
and symptoms.

The exam may reveal:

      * Increased pressure in the neck veins 
      * ClubbingÂ of the fingers 
      * Bluish coloration of the skin due to lack of oxygen (cyanosis)
      * Swelling in the legs 

Your provider may hear abnormal heart sounds when listening to the chest and
lungs with a stethoscope.

The following tests may be done:

      * Arterial blood gases
      * Blood oximetry
      * Chest x-ray
      * Chest CT
      * Cardiac catheterization
      * Lung function tests
      * Echocardiogram
      * Lung biopsy 

## Treatment

There is currently no known effective medical treatment. However, the
following medicines may be helpful for some people:

      * Medicines that widen the blood vessels (vasodilators)
      * Medicines that control the immune system response (such as azathioprine or steroids)

A lung transplant may be needed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is often very poor in infants, with a survival rate of just a few
weeks. Survival in adults may be months to a few years.

## Possible Complications

Complications of PVOD may include:

      * Difficulty breathingÂ that gets worse, including at night (sleep apnea)
      * Pulmonary hypertension
      * Right-sided heart failure (cor pulmonale)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of this disorder.

## Alternative Names

Pulmonary vaso-occlusive disease

## Images

      * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Chin K, Channick RN. Pulmonary hypertension. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst
JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 58.

Churg A, Wright JL. Pulmonary hypertension. In: Leslie KO, Wick MR, eds.
_Practical Pulmonary Pathology: A Diagnostic Approach_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 12.

Mclaughlin VV, Humbert M. Pulmonary hypertension. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow
RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A
Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 85.

## Review Date 4/2/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Pulmonary
Hypertension](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PulmonaryHypertension2_thumb.jpg)Pulmonary
Hypertension _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

