Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003686.htm    
                                Description: Folic acid is a type of B vitamin. This article discusses the test to measure the amount of folic acid in the blood.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Folic acid - test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003686.htm

# Folic acid - test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Folic acid is a type of B vitamin. This article discusses the test to measure
the amount of folic acid in the blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You should not eat or drink for 6 hours before the test. Your health care
provider may tell you to stop taking any drugs that may interfere with test
results, including folic acid supplements.

Drugs that can decrease folic acid measurements include:

      * Alcohol
      * Aminosalicylic acid
      * Birth control pills
      * Estrogens
      * Tetracyclines
      * Ampicillin
      * Chloramphenicol
      * Erythromycin
      * Methotrexate
      * Penicillin
      * Aminopterin
      * Phenobarbital
      * Phenytoin
      * Drugs to treat malaria

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel slight pain or a little sting when the needle is inserted. There
may be some throbbing at the site.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to check for folic acid deficiency.

Folic acid helps form red blood cells and produce DNA that stores genetic
codes. Taking the right amount of folic acid before and during pregnancy helps
prevent neural tube defects, such as spina bifida.

Women who are pregnant or planning to become pregnant should take at least 600
micrograms (mcg) of folic acid every day. Some women may need to take more if
they have a history of neural tube defects in earlier pregnancies. Ask your
provider how much you need.

## Normal Results

The normal range is 2.7 to 17.0 nanograms per milliliter (ng/mL) or 6.12 to
38.52 nanomoles per liter (nmol/L).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different labs. Talk to your
provider about the meaning of your test results.

The examples above show the common measurements for results for these tests.
Some labs use different measurements or may test different specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Lower-than-normal folic acid levels may indicate:

      * Poor diet
      * Malabsorption syndrome (for example, celiac sprue)
      * Malnutrition

The test may also be done in cases of:

      * Anemia due to folate deficiency
      * Megaloblastic anemia

## Risks

There is very little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and
arteries vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body
to the other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from
others.

Other slight risks from having blood drawn may include:

      * Excessive bleeding
      * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
      * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
      * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Folate - test

## References

Antony AC. Megaloblastic anemias. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et
al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 39.

Elghetany MT, Schexneider KI, Banki K. Erythrocytic disorders. In: McPherson
RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory
Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 32.

Mason JB. Vitamins, trace minerals, and other micronutrients. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 218.

## Review Date 1/29/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Folic Acid](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FolicAcid_thumb.jpg)Folic Acid
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

