Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002408.htm    
                                Description: Folic acid and folate are both terms for a type of B vitamin (vitamin B9).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Folic acid in diet

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002408.htm

# Folic acid in diet

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Folic acid and folate are both terms for a type of B vitamin (vitamin B9).

Folate is a B vitamin that occurs naturally in foods such as green leafy
vegetables, citrus fruit, and beans.

Folic acid is man-made (synthetic) folate. It is found in supplements and
added to fortified foods.

The terms folic acid and folate are often used interchangeably.

Folic acid is water-soluble. Leftover amounts of the vitamin leave the body
through the urine. That means your body does not store folic acid. You need to
get a regular supply of the vitamin through the foods you eat or through
supplements.

## Function

Folate has many functions in the body:

      * Helps tissues grow and cells work
      * Works with vitamin B12 and vitamin C to help the body break down, use, and create new proteins
      * Helps form red blood cells (helps prevent anemia)
      * Helps produce DNA, the building block of the human body, which carries genetic information

Folate deficiency may cause:

      * Diarrhea
      * Gray hair
      * Mouth ulcers
      * Peptic ulcer
      * Poor growth
      * Swollen tongue (glossitis) 

It may also lead to certain types of anemias.

Because it's hard to get enough folate through foods, women thinking about
becoming pregnant need to take folic acid supplements. Taking the right amount
of folic acid before and during pregnancy helps prevent neural tube defects,
including spina bifida. Taking higher doses of folic acid before you get
pregnant and during the first trimester may lower your chances of
miscarriage.Â

Folic acid supplements may also be used to treat a lack of folate, and may
help with some kinds of menstrual problems and leg ulcers.

## Food Sources

Folate occurs naturally in the following foods:

      * Dark green leafy vegetables
      * Dried beans and peas (legumes)
      * Citrus fruits and juices 

Fortified means that vitamins have been added to the food. Many foods are now
fortified with folic acid. Some of these are:

      * Enriched breads
      * Cereals
      * Flours
      * Cornmeals
      * Pastas
      * Rice
      * Other grain products

There are also many pregnancy-specific products on the market that have been
fortified with folic acid. Some of these are at levels that meet or exceed the
RDA for folate. Women should be careful about including a high amount of these
products in their diets along with their prenatal multivitamin. Taking more is
not needed and does not provide any added benefit.

The tolerable upper intake level for folic acid is 1000 micrograms (mcg) a
day. This limit is based on folic acid that comes from supplements and
fortified foods. It does not refer to the folate found naturally in foods.

## Side Effects

Folic acid does not cause harm when used at recommended levels. Folic acid
dissolves in water. This means that it is regularly removed from the body
through urine, so excess amounts do not build up in the body.

You should not get more than 1000 mcg per day of folic acid. Using higher
levels of folic acid can mask vitamin B12 deficiency.

## Recommendations

The best way to get the daily requirement of essential vitamins is to eat a
wide variety of foods. Most people in the United States get enough folic acid
in their diet because there is plenty of it in the food supply.

Folic acid can help reduce the risk for certain birth defects, such as spina
bifida and anencephaly.

      * Women who are of childbearing age should take at least 400 micrograms (mcg) of a folic acid supplement every day in addition to that found in fortified foods.
      * Pregnant women should take 600 micrograms a day, or 1000 micrograms a day if expecting twins.  

The Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) for vitamins reflects how much of each
vitamin most people should get each day.

      * The RDA for vitamins may be used as goals for each person.
      * How much of each vitamin you need depends on your age and gender. Other factors, such as pregnancy and illnesses, are also important. 

The Food and Nutrition Board of the Institute of Medicine Recommended Intakes
for Individuals - Daily Reference Intakes (DRIs) for folate:

Infants

      * 0 to 6 months: 65 mcg/day*
      * 7 to 12 months: 80 mcg/day* 

*For infants from birth to 12 months, the Food and Nutrition Board established an Acceptable Intake (AI) for folate that is equivalent to the mean intake of folate in healthy, breastfed infants in the United States. 

Children

      * 1 to 3 years: 150 mcg/day
      * 4 to 8 years: 200 mcg/day
      * 9 to 13 years: 300 mcg/day 

Adolescents and adults

      * Males, age 14 and older: 400 mcg/day
      * Females, age 14 and older: 400 mcg/day
      * Pregnant females of all ages: 600 mcg/day
      * Breastfeeding females of all ages: 500 mcg/day 

## Alternative Names

Folic acid; Polyglutamyl folacin; Pteroylmonoglutamate; Folate

## Images

      * ![Vitamin B9 benefits](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19518t.jpg)Vitamin B9 benefits
      * ![Vitamin B9 source](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19519t.jpg)Vitamin B9 source

## References

Institute of Medicine (US) Standing Committee on the Scientific Evaluation of
Dietary Reference Intakes and its Panel on Folate, Other B Vitamins, and
Choline. Dietary reference intakes for thiamin, riboflavin, niacin, vitamin
B6, folate, vitamin B12, pantothenic acid, biotin, and choline. National
Academies Press. Washington, DC, 1998. PMID: 23193625
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23193625.

Mason JB. Vitamins, trace minerals, and other micronutrients. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 218.

Mesiano S, Jones EE. Fertilization, pregnancy, and lactation. In: Boron WF,
Boulpaep EL, eds. _Medical Physiology._ 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 56.

Salwen MJ. Vitamins and trace elements. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 26.

## Review Date 12/30/2018

Updated by: LaQuita Martinez, MD, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology,
Emory Johns Creek Hospital, Alpharetta, GA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD,
MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Folic Acid](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FolicAcid_thumb.jpg)Folic Acid
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

