Link: https://medlineplus.gov/aspergillosis.html    
                                Description: Find out about symptoms, tests, and treatment of aspergillosis, a disease caused by a fungus.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Aspergillosis

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/aspergillosis.html

#  Aspergillosis

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Symptoms
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Aspergillosis is a disease caused by a fungus (or mold) called Aspergillus.
The fungus is very common in both indoors and outdoors. Most people breathe in
the spores of the fungus every day without being affected. But some people get
the disease. It usually occurs in people with lung diseases or weakened immune
systems.

There are different kinds of aspergillosis. One kind is allergic
bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (also called ABPA). Symptoms of ABPA include
wheezing and coughing. ABPA can affect healthy people but it is most common in
people with asthma or cystic fibrosis.

Another kind is invasive aspergillosis, which damages tissues in the body. It
usually affects the lungs. Sometimes it can also cause infection in other
organs and spread throughout the body. It affects people who have immune
system problems, such as people who have had a transplant, are taking high
doses of steroids, or getting chemotherapy for some cancers.

Your doctor might do a variety of tests to make the diagnosis, including a
chest x-ray, CT scan of the lungs, and an examination of tissues for signs of
the fungus. Treatment is with antifungal drugs. If you have ABPA, you may also
take steroids.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Start Here

    * Aspergillosis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Aspergillosis (American Thoracic Society) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Symptoms

    * Symptoms of Aspergillosis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Fungal Culture Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Risk and Prevention of Aspergillosis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Treatment and Outcomes of Aspergillosis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Allergic Bronchopulmonary Aspergillosis (Cystic Fibrosis Foundation)

## Specifics

    * Allergic Bronchopulmonary Aspergillosis (ABPA) (American Academy of Allergy, Asthma, and Immunology) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Aspergillosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Aspergillosis, Allergic Bronchopulmonary ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Pulmonary aspergilloma: from classification to management.
    * Article: Inhalational Drug Delivery in Pulmonary Aspergillosis.
    * Article: Polymerase chain reaction blood tests for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis...
    * Aspergillosis -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
    * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * Aspergillosis (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Aspergillosis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Aspergillosis precipitin (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Pulmonary aspergilloma (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Aspergillosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AspergillosisII.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Aspergillosis
    * Aspergillosis precipitin
    * Pulmonary aspergilloma

## Related Health Topics

    * Fungal Infections
    * Molds

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Aspergillosis is the National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 4 April 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

