Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000354.htm    
                                Description: Folate deficiency means you have a lower-than-normal amount of folic acid, a type of vitamin B, in your blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Folate deficiency

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000354.htm

# Folate deficiency

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Folate deficiency means you have a lower-than-normal amount of folic acid, a
type of vitamin B, in your blood.

## Causes

Folic acid (vitamin B9) works with vitamin B12 and vitamin C to help the body
break down, use, and make new proteins. The vitamin helps form red and white
blood cells. It also helps produce DNA, the building block of the human body,
which carries genetic information.

Folic acid is a water-soluble type of vitamin B. This means it is not stored
in the fat tissues of the body. Leftover amounts of the vitamin leave the body
through the urine.

Because folate is not stored in the body in large amounts, your blood levels
will get low after only a few weeks of eating a diet low in folate. Folate is
found primarily in legumes, leafy greens, eggs, beets, bananas, citrus fruits,
and liver.

Contributors to folate deficiency include:

      * Diseases in which folic acid is not well absorbed in the digestive system (such as Celiac disease or Crohn disease)
      * Drinking too much alcohol
      * Eating overcooked fruits and vegetables. Folate can be easily destroyed by heat.
      * Hemolytic anemia
      * Certain medicines (such as phenytoin, sulfasalazine, or trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole)
      * Eating an unhealthy diet that does not include enough fruits and vegetables
      * Kidney dialysis 

## Symptoms

Folic acid deficiency may cause:

      * Fatigue, irritability, or diarrhea 
      * Poor growth
      * Smooth and tender tongue

## Exams and Tests

Folate deficiency can be diagnosed with a blood test. Pregnant women commonly
have this blood test at prenatal checkups.

## Possible Complications

Complications include:

      * Anemia (low red blood cell count)
      * Low levels of white blood cells and platelets (in severe cases) 

In folate-deficiency anemia, the red blood cells are abnormally large
(megaloblastic).

Pregnant women need to get enough folic acid. The vitamin is important to the
growth of the fetus's spinal cord and brain. Folic acid deficiency can cause
severe birth defects known as neural tube defects. The Recommended Dietary
Allowance (RDA) for folate during pregnancy is 600 micrograms (Âµg)/day.

## Prevention

The best way to get vitamins your body needs is to eat a balanced diet. Most
people in the United States eat enough folic acid because it is plentiful in
the food supply.

Folate occurs naturally in the following foods:

      * Beans and legumes
      * Citrus fruits and juices
      * Dark green leafy vegetables such as spinach, asparagus, and broccoli
      * Liver
      * Mushrooms
      * Poultry, pork, and shellfish
      * Wheat bran and other whole grains 

The Institute of Medicine Food and Nutrition Board recommends that adults get
400Â Âµg of folate daily. Women who may become pregnant should take folic acid
supplements to ensure that they get enough each day.

Specific recommendations depend on a person's age, gender, and other factors
(such as pregnancy and lactation). Many foods, such as fortified breakfast
cereals, now have extra folic acid added to help prevent birth defects.

## Alternative Names

Deficiency - folic acid; Folic acid deficiency

## Images

      * ![First trimester of pregnancy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17178t.jpg)First trimester of pregnancy
      * ![Folic acid](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9332t.jpg)Folic acid
      * ![Early weeks of pregnancy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9641t.jpg)Early weeks of pregnancy

## References

Antony AC. Megaloblastic anemias. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et
al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 39.

Koppel BS. Nutritional and alcohol-related neurologic disorders. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 388.

Samuels P. Hematologic complications of pregnancy. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR,
Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 44.

## Review Date 7/8/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Folic Acid](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FolicAcid_thumb.jpg)Folic Acid
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

