Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003167.htm    
                                Description: Ankle pain involves any discomfort in one or both ankles.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ankle pain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003167.htm

# Ankle pain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ankle pain involves any discomfort in one or both ankles.

## Causes

Ankle pain is often due to an ankle sprain.

      * An ankle sprain is an injury to the ligaments, which connect bones to one another.
      * In most cases, the ankle is twisted inward, causing small tears in the ligaments. The tearing leads to swelling and bruising, making it difficult to bear weight on the joint. 

In addition to ankle sprains, ankle pain can be caused by:

      * Damage or swelling of tendons (which join muscles to bone) or cartilage (which cushions joints)
      * Infection in the ankle joint
      * Osteoarthritis, gout, rheumatoid arthritis, Reiter syndrome, and other types of arthritis 

Problems in areas near the ankle that can cause you to feel pain in the ankle
include:

      * Blockage of blood vessels in the leg
      * Heel pain or injuries
      * Tendinitis around the ankle joint
      * Nerve injuries (such as tarsal tunnel syndrome or sciatica)

## Home Care

Home care for ankle pain depends on the cause and what other treatment or
surgery has taken place. You may be asked to:

      * Rest your ankle for several days. Try to NOT put much weight on your ankle.
      * Put on an ACE bandage. You also can buy a brace that supports your ankle.
      * Use crutches or a cane to help take the weight off a sore or unsteady ankle.
      * Keep your foot raised above the level of your heart. When you are sitting or sleeping, place two pillows under your ankle.
      * Ice the area right away. Apply ice for 10 to 15 minutes every hour for the first day. Then, apply ice every 3 to 4 hours for 2 more days.
      * Try acetaminophen, ibuprofen, or other pain relievers made by the store. 
      * You may need a brace to support the ankle or a boot to rest your ankle.

As the swelling and pain improve, you may still need to keep extra weight
stress off your ankle for a period of time.

The injury may take a few weeks to many months to fully heal. Once the pain
and swelling are mostly gone, the injured ankle will still be a little weaker
and less stable than the uninjured ankle.

      * You will need to start exercises to strengthen your ankle and avoid injury in the future.
      * DO NOT begin these exercises until a health care professional tells you it is safe to start.
      * You will also need to work on your balance and agility. 

Other advice your health care provider may give you include:

      * Lose weight if you are overweight. ExtraÂ weight puts strain on your ankles.
      * Warm up before exercising. Stretch the muscles and tendons that support the ankle.
      * Avoid sports and activities for which you are not properly conditioned.
      * Make sure that shoes fit you properly. Avoid high-heeled shoes.
      * If you are prone to ankle pain or twisting your ankle during certain activities, use ankle support braces. These include air casts, ACE bandages, or lace-up ankle supports.
      * Work on your balance and do agility exercises. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the hospital if:

      * You have severe pain even when you are NOT bearing weight.
      * You suspect a broken bone (the joint looks deformed and you cannot put any weight on the leg).
      * You can hear a popping sound and have immediate pain of the joint.
      * You can't move your ankle back and forth.

Call your provider if:

      * Swelling does not go down within 2 to 3 days.
      * You have symptoms of infection. The area becomes red, more painful, or warm, or you have a fever over 100Â°F (37.7Â°C).
      * The pain does not go away after several weeks.
      * Other joints are also involved.
      * You have a history of arthritis and are having new symptoms.

## Alternative Names

Pain - ankle

## Images

      * ![Ankle sprain swelling](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19576t.jpg)Ankle sprain swelling
      * ![Ankle sprain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19577t.jpg)Ankle sprain
      * ![Sprained ankle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8723t.jpg)Sprained ankle

## References

Irwin TA. Tendon injuries of the foot and ankle. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR,
eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 117.

Molloy A, Selvan D. Ligamentous injuries of the foot and ankle. In: Miller MD,
Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 116.

Osborne MD, Esser SM. Chronic ankle instability. In: Frontera WR, Silver JK,
Rizzo TD, eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 85.

Price MD, Chiodo CP. Foot and ankle pain. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC, Gabriel
SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelley and Firestein's Textbook of
Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 49.

Rose NGW, Green TJ. Ankle and foot. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 51.

## Review Date 3/17/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ankle](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnkleInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Ankle
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

