Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000190.htm    
                                Description: You had surgery to replace your damaged ankle joint with an artificial joint. This article tells you how to take care of yourself when you go home from the hospital.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ankle replacement - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000190.htm

# Ankle replacement - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had surgery to replace your damaged ankle joint with an artificial joint.
This article tells you how to take care of yourself when you go home from the
hospital.

## When You're in the Hospital

You had an ankle replacement. Your surgeon removed and reshaped damaged bones,
and put in an artificial ankle joint.

You received pain medicine and were shown how to treat swelling around your
new ankle joint.

## What to Expect at Home

Your ankle area may feel warm and tender for 4 to 6 weeks.

You will need help with daily chores such as driving, shopping, bathing,
making meals, housework for up to 6 weeks. Be sure to check with your health
care providers before you return to any of these activities. You will need to
keep weight off of the foot for 10 to 12 weeks. Recovery can take 3 to 6
months. It may take up to 6 months before you return to normal activity
levels.

## Activity

Your provider will ask you to rest when you first go home. Keep your leg
propped up on one or two pillows. Place the pillows below your foot or calf
muscle. This helps reduce swelling.

It is very important to elevate your leg. Keep it above heart level is
possible. Swelling can lead to poor wound healing and other surgery
complications.

You will be asked to keep all weight off of your foot for 10 to 12 weeks. You
will need to use a walker or crutches.

      * You will need to wear a cast or a splint. Take the cast or splint off only when your provider or physical therapist says it is OK.
      * Try not to stand for long periods.
      * Do the exercises your doctor or physical therapist showed you. 

You will go to physical therapy to help your recovery.

      * You will start with range of motion exercises for your ankle.
      * You will learn exercises to strengthen the muscles around your ankle next.
      * Your therapist will slowly increase the amount and type of activities as you build strength. 

DO NOT start heavier exercises, such as jogging, swimming, aerobics, or
bicycling, until your provider or therapist tells you it is OK. Ask your
provider when it will be safe for you to return to work or drive.

## Wound Care

Your sutures (stitches) will be removed about 1 to 2 weeks after surgery. You
should keep your incision clean and dry for 2 weeks. Keep your bandage on your
wound clean and dry. You may change the dressing every day if you like.

DO NOT shower until after your follow-up appointment. Your provider will tell
you when you can begin taking showers. When you do start showering again, let
the water run over the incision. DO NOT scrub.

DO NOT soak the wound in the bath or a hot tub.

## Pain

You will receive a prescription for pain medicine. Get it filled when you go
home so you have it when you need it. Take your pain medicine when you start
having pain so the pain does not get too bad.

Taking ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) or another anti-inflammatory medicine may
also help. Talk to your provider about what other medicines you can take with
your pain medicine.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you notice:

      * Bleeding that soaks through your dressing and does not stop when you put pressure over the area
      * Pain that does not go away with your pain medicine
      * Swelling or pain in your calf muscle
      * Foot or toes that appear darker or are cool to the touch
      * Redness, pain, swelling, or yellowish discharge from the wound sites
      * Fever that is higher than 101Â°F (38.3Â°C)
      * Shortness of breath or chest pain 

## Alternative Names

Ankle arthroplasty - total - discharge; Total ankle arthroplasty - discharge;
Endoprosthetic ankle replacement - discharge; Osteoarthritis - ankle

## Images

      * ![Ankle replacement](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/21735t.jpg)Ankle replacement

## References

Murphy GA. Total ankle arthroplasty. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds.
_Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 10.

Wexler D, Campbell ME, Grosser DM, Kile TA. Ankle arthrtitis. In: Frontera WR,
Silver JK, Rizzo TD, eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 82.

## Read More

      * Ankle replacement
      * Osteoarthritis
      * Rheumatoid arthritis

## Patient Instructions

      * Bathroom safety for adults
      * Preventing falls
      * Surgical wound care - open

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Ankle Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

