Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007254.htm    
                                Description: Ankle replacement is surgery to replace the damaged bone and cartilage in the ankle joint. Artificial joint parts (prosthetics) are used to replace your own bones. There are different types of ankle replacement    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ankle replacement

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007254.htm

# Ankle replacement

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ankle replacement is surgery to replace the damaged bone and cartilage in the
ankle joint. Artificial joint parts (prosthetics) are used to replace your own
bones. There are different types of ankle replacement surgeries.

## Description

Ankle replacement surgery is most often done while you are under general
anesthesia. This means you will be asleep and not feel the pain.

You may have spinal anesthesia. You can be awake but will not feel anything
below your waist. If you have spinal anesthesia, you will also be given
medicine to help you relax during the operation.

Your surgeon will make a surgical cut in the front of your ankle to expose the
ankle joint. Your surgeon will then gently push the tendons, nerves, and blood
vessels to the side. After this, your surgeon will remove the damaged bone and
cartilage.

Your surgeon will remove the damaged part of:

      * The lower end of your shin bone (tibia).
      * The top of your foot bone (talus) that the leg bones rest on.

The metal parts of the new artificial joint are then attached to the cut bony
surfaces. A special glue/bone cement may be used to hold them in place. A
piece of plastic is inserted between the two metal parts. Screws may be placed
to stabilize your ankle.

The surgeon will put the tendons back into place and close the wound with
sutures (stitches). You may need to wear a splint, cast, or brace for a while
to keep the ankle from moving.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

This surgery may be done if the ankle joint is badly damaged. Your symptoms
may be pain and loss of movement of the ankle. Some causes of damage are:

      * Arthritis caused by ankle injuries or surgery in the past
      * Bone fracture
      * Infection
      * Osteoarthritis
      * Rheumatoid arthritis
      * Tumor 

You may not be able to have a total ankle replacement if you have had ankle
joint infections in the past.

## Risks

Risks for any surgery and anesthesia are:

      * Allergic reactions to medicines
      * Breathing problems
      * Bleeding
      * Blood clot
      * Infection

Risks for ankle replacement surgery are:

      * Ankle weakness, stiffness, or instability
      * Loosening of the artificial joint over time
      * Skin not healing after surgery
      * Nerve damage
      * Blood vessel damage
      * Bone break during surgery
      * Dislocation of the artificial joint
      * Allergic reaction to the artificial joint (extremely uncommon) 

## Before the Procedure

Always tell your health care provider what drugs you are taking, even drugs,
supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription.

During the 2 weeks before your surgery:

      * You may be asked to stop taking drugs that make it harder for your blood to clot. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Naprosyn, Aleve), blood thinners (such as Warfarin or Clopidogrel) and other drugs.
      * Ask which drugs you should still take on the day of your surgery.
      * If you have diabetes, heart disease, or other medical conditions, your surgeon will ask you to see your provider who treats you for these conditions.
      * Tell your provider if you have been drinking a lot of alcohol, more than one or two drinks a day.
      * If you smoke, you should stop. Ask your provider for help. Smoking can slow down wound and bone healing. It will significantly increase your complications after surgery.
      * Always let your provider know about any cold, flu, fever, herpes breakout, or other illness you may have before your surgery.
      * You may want to visit the physical therapist to learn some exercises to do before surgery. The physical therapist can also teach you how to correctly use crutches. 

On the day of your surgery:

      * You will most often be asked not to drink or eat anything for 6 to 12 hours before the procedure.
      * Take the drugs you were told to take with a small sip of water. 

Your provider will tell you when to arrive at the hospital.

## After the Procedure

After surgery, you will most likely need to stay in the hospital for at least
one night. You may have received a nerve block that controls pain for the
first 12 to 24 hours after surgery.

Your ankle will be in a cast or a splint after surgery. A small tube that
helps drain blood from the ankle joint may be left in your ankle for 1 or 2
days. During your early recovery period, you should focus on keeping the
swelling down by having your foot raised higher than your heart while you are
sleeping or resting.

You see a physical therapist, who will teach you exercises that will help you
move more easily. You most likely will not be able to put any weight on the
ankle for a few months.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

A successful ankle replacement will likely:

      * Decrease or get rid of your pain
      * Allow you to move your ankle up and down 

In most cases, total ankle replacements last 10 or more years. How long yours
lasts will depend on your activity level, overall health, and the amount of
damage to your ankle joint before surgery.

## Alternative Names

Ankle arthroplasty - total; Total ankle arthroplasty; Endoprosthetic ankle
replacement; Ankle surgery

## Patient Instructions

      * Ankle replacement - discharge 
      * Bathroom safety for adults
      * Preventing falls
      * Preventing falls - what to ask your doctor 
      * Surgical wound care - open

## Images

      * ![Ankle anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19918t.jpg)Ankle anatomy

## References

Hansen ST. Post-traumatic reconstruction of the foot and ankle. In: Browner
BD, Jupiter JB, Krettek C, Anderson PA, eds. _Skeletal Trauma: Basic Science,
Management, and Reconstruction_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 68.

Myerson MS, Kadakia AR. Total ankle replacement. In: Myerson MS, Kadakia AR,
eds. _Reconstructive Foot and Ankle Surgery: Management and Complications_.
3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 18.

Murphy GA. Total ankle arthroplasty. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds.
_Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 10.

## Review Date 3/17/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ankle](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnkleInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Ankle
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

