Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002413.htm    
                                Description: Potassium is a mineral that your body needs to work properly. It is a type of electrolyte.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Potassium in diet

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002413.htm

# Potassium in diet

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Potassium is a mineral that your body needs to work properly. It is a type of
electrolyte.

## Function

Potassium is a very important mineral for the human body.

Your body needs potassium to:

      * Build proteins
      * Break down and use carbohydrates
      * Build muscle
      * Maintain normal body growth
      * Control the electrical activity of the heart
      * Control the acid-base balance 

## Food Sources

Many foods contain potassium. All meats (red meat and chicken) and fish, such
as salmon, cod, flounder, and sardines, are good sources of potassium. Soy
products and veggie burgers are also good sources of potassium.

Vegetables, including broccoli, peas, lima beans, tomatoes, potatoes
(particularly their skins), sweet potatoes, and winter squash are all good
sources of potassium.

Fruits that contain significant amounts of potassium include citrus fruits,
cantaloupe, bananas, kiwi, prunes, and apricots. Dried apricots contain more
potassium than fresh apricots.

Milk, yogurt, and nuts are also excellent sources of potassium.

People with kidney problems, particularly those on dialysis, should not eat
too many potassium-rich foods. Your health care provider will recommend a
special diet.

## Side Effects

Having too much or too little potassium in your body can cause serious health
problems.

A low blood level of potassium is called hypokalemia. It can cause weak
muscles, abnormal heart rhythms, and a slight rise in blood pressure. You may
have hypokalemia if you:

      * Take diuretics (water pills) to treat high blood pressure or heart failure
      * Take too many laxatives
      * Have severe or prolonged vomiting and diarrhea
      * Have certain kidney or adrenal gland disorders 

Too much potassium in the blood is known as hyperkalemia. It may cause
abnormal and dangerous heart rhythms. Some common causes include:

      * Poor kidney function
      * Heart medicines called angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin 2 receptor blockers (ARBs)
      * Potassium-sparing diuretics (water pills) such as spironolactone or amiloride
      * Severe infection 

## Recommendations

The Food and Nutrition Center of the Institute of Medicine recommends these
dietary intakes for potassium, based on age:

INFANTS

      * 0 to 6 months: 400 milligrams a day (mg/day)
      * 7 to 12 months: 860 mg/day 

CHILDREN and ADOLESCENTS

      * 1 to 3 years: 2000 mg/day
      * 4 to 8 years: 2300 mg/day
      * 9 to 13 years: 2300 mg/day (female) and 2500 mg/day (male)
      * 14 to 18 years: 2300 mg/day (female) and 3000 mg/day (male)

ADULTS

      * Age 19 years and older: 2600 mg/day (female) and 3400 mg/day (male)

Women who are pregnant or producing breast milk need slightly higher amounts
(2600 to 2900 mg/day and 2500 to 2800 mg/day respectively). Ask your provider
what amount is best for you.

People who are being treated for hypokalemia may need potassium supplements.
Your provider will develop a supplementation plan based on your specific
needs.

Note: If you have kidney disease or other long-term (chronic) illnesses, it is
important that you talk to your provider before taking potassium supplements.

## Alternative Names

Diet - potassium; Hyperkalemia - potassium in the diet; Hypokalemia -
potassium in the diet; Chronic kidney disease - potassium in diet; Kidney
failure - potassium in diet

## References

National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine website. Dietary
Reference Intakes for sodium and potassium. March 5, 2019.
nationalacademies.org/hmd/reports/2019/dietary-reference-intakes-sodium-
potassium.aspx. Accessed July 8, 2019.

Seifter JL. Potassium disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine._ 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 117.Â

## Review Date 4/23/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, The Brooklyn Hospital Center, Brooklyn, NY. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update 07/08/2019.

![Potassium](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Potassium_thumb.jpg)Potassium
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

