Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003484.htm    
                                Description: This test measures the amount of potassium in the fluid portion (serum) of the blood. Potassium (K+) helps nerves and muscles communicate. It also helps move nutrients into cells and waste products out    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Potassium test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003484.htm

# Potassium test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

This test measures the amount of potassium in the fluid portion (serum) of the
blood. Potassium (K+) helps nerves and muscles communicate. It also helps move
nutrients into cells and waste products out of cells.

Potassium levels in the body are mainly controlled by the hormone aldosterone.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed. Most of the time blood is drawn from a vein located
on the inside of the elbow or the back of the hand.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Many medicines can interfere with blood test results.

      * Your health care provider will tell you if you need to stop taking any medicines before you have this test.
      * DO NOT stop or change your medicines without talking to your provider first. 

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel slight pain or a sting when the needle is inserted. You may also
feel some throbbing at the site after the blood is drawn.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is a regular part of a basic or comprehensive metabolic panel.

You may have this test to diagnose or monitor kidney disease. The most common
cause of a high blood potassium level is kidney disease.

Potassium is important to heart function.

      * Your provider may order this test if you have signs of high blood pressure or heart problems.
      * Small changes in potassium levels can have a big effect on the activity of nerves and muscles, especially the heart.
      * Low levels of potassium can lead to an irregular heartbeat or other electrical malfunction of the heart.
      * High levels cause decreased heart muscle activity.
      * Either situation can lead to life-threatening heart problems. 

It may also be done if your provider suspects metabolic acidosis (for example,
caused by uncontrolled diabetes) or alkalosis (for example, caused by excess
vomiting).

Sometimes, the potassium test may be done in people who are having an attack
of paralysis.

## Normal Results

The normal range is 3.7 to 5.2Â milliequivalents per liter (mEq/L) 3.70 to
5.20Â millimoles per liter (millimol/L).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

The examples above show the common measurements for results for these tests.
Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

High levels of potassium (hyperkalemia) may be due to:

      * Addison disease (rare)
      * Blood transfusion
      * Certain medicinesÂ including angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), and the potassium-sparing diuretics spironolactone, amiloride and triamterene
      * Crushed tissue injury
      * Hyperkalemic periodic paralysis
      * Hypoaldosteronism (very rare)
      * Kidney insufficiency or failure
      * Metabolic or respiratory acidosis
      * Red blood cell destruction
      * Too much potassium in your diet 

Low levels of potassium (hypokalemia) may be due to:

      * Acute or chronic diarrhea
      * Cushing syndrome (rare)
      * Diuretics such as hydrochlorothiazide, furosemide, and indapamide
      * Hyperaldosteronism
      * Hypokalemic periodic paralysis
      * Not enough potassium in the diet
      * Renal artery stenosis
      * Renal tubular acidosis (rare)
      * Vomiting 

## Risks

If it is hard to get the needle into the vein to take the blood sample, injury
to the red blood cells may cause potassium to be released. This may cause a
falsely high result.

## Alternative Names

Hypokalemia test; K+

## Images

      * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Mount DB. Disorders of potassium balance. In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden
PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 18.

Patney V, Whaley-Connell A. Hypokalemia and hyperkalemia. In: Lerma EV, Sparks
MA, Topf JM, eds. _Nephrology Secrets_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 74.

Seifter JR. Potassium disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 117.

## Review Date 4/29/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Potassium](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Potassium_thumb.jpg)Potassium
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

