Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000312.htm    
                                Description: Hypokalemic periodic paralysis (hypoPP) is a disorder that causes occasional episodes of muscle weakness and sometimes a lower than normal level of potassium in the blood.Â The medical name for low potassium    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hypokalemic periodic paralysis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000312.htm

# Hypokalemic periodic paralysis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hypokalemic periodic paralysis (hypoPP) is a disorder that causes occasional
episodes of muscle weakness and sometimes a lower than normal level of
potassium in the blood.Â The medical name for low potassium level is
hypokalemia.

HypoPP is one of a group of genetic disorders that includes hyperkalemic
periodic paralysis and thyrotoxic periodic paralysis.

HypoPP is the most common form of periodic paralysis. It affects males more
often.

## Causes

HypoPP is congenital. This means it is present at birth. In most cases, it is
passed down through families (inherited) as an autosomal dominant disorder. In
other words only one parent needs to pass the gene related to this condition
on toÂ their childÂ in order for the childÂ to be affected.

In some cases, the condition may be the result of a genetic problem that is
not inherited.

Unlike other forms of periodic paralysis, people with hypoPP have normal
thyroid function. But they have a very low blood level of potassium during
episodes of weakness. This results from potassium moving from the blood into
muscle cells in an abnormal way.

Risk factors include having other family members with periodic paralysis. The
risk is slightly higher in Asian men who also have thyroid disorders.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include attacks of muscle weakness or loss of muscle movement
(paralysis) that come and go. There is normal muscle strength between attacks.

Attacks usually begin in the teen years, but they can occur before age 10. How
often the attacks occur varies. Some people have attacks every day. Others
have them once a year. During attacks the person remains alert.

The weakness or paralysis:

      * Most commonly occurs at the shoulders and hips
      * May also affect the arms, legs, muscles of the eyes, and muscles that helpÂ with breathing and swallowing
      * Occurs off and on
      * Most commonly occurs on awakening or after sleep or rest
      * Is rare during exercise, but may be triggered by resting after exercise
      * May be triggered by high-carbohydrate, high-salt meals, stress, pregnancy, heavy exercise, and cold
      * An attack usually lasts for several hours up to a day

Another symptom may include eyelid myotonia (a condition in which after
opening and closing the eyes, they cannot be opened for a short time).

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider may suspect hypoPP based on a family history of the
disorder. Other clues to the disorder are muscle weakness symptoms that come
and go with normal or low results of a potassium test.

Between attacks, a physical examination shows nothing abnormal. Before an
attack, there may be leg stiffness or heaviness in the legs.

During an attack of muscle weakness, blood potassium level is low. This
confirms the diagnosis. There is no decrease in total body potassium. Blood
potassium level is normal between attacks.

During an attack, muscle reflexes are decreased or absent. And muscles go limp
rather than staying stiff. Muscle groups near the body, such as the shoulders
and hips, are involved more often than the arms and legs.

Tests that may be done include:

      * ElectrocardiogramÂ (ECG), which may be abnormal during attacks
      * ElectromyographyÂ (EMG), which is usually normal between attacks and abnormal during attacks
      * Muscle biopsy, whichÂ may show abnormalities

Other tests may be ordered to rule out other causes.

## Treatment

The goals of treatment are relief of symptoms and prevention of further
attacks.

Muscle weakness that involves the breathing or swallowing muscles is an
emergency situation. Dangerous irregular heartbeats (heart arrhythmias) may
also occur during attacks. Any of these must be treated right away.

Potassium given during an attack may stop the attack. Potassium can be taken
by mouth. But if weakness is severe, potassium may need to be given through a
vein (IV).

Taking potassium supplements may help prevent muscle weakness.

Eating a low-carbohydrate diet may help decrease symptoms.

A medicine called acetazolamide may be prescribed to prevent attacks. Your
provider may tell you to also take potassium supplements because acetazolamide
may cause your body to lose potassium.

If acetazolamide does not work for you, other medicines may be prescribed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

HypoPP responds well to treatment. Treatment may prevent, and even reverse,
progressive muscle weakness. Although muscle strength starts out normal
between attacks, repeated attacks may eventually cause worsening and permanent
muscle weakness between attacks.

## Possible Complications

Health problems that may be due to this condition include:

      * Kidney stones (a side effect of acetazolamide)
      * Irregular heartbeat during attacks
      * Difficulty breathing, speaking, or swallowing during attacks (rare)
      * Muscle weakness that worsens over time

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you or your child have muscle weakness that comes and
goes, especially if you have family members who have periodic paralysis.

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you faint or have trouble breathing, speaking, or swallowing.

## Prevention

HypoPP cannot be prevented. Because it can be inherited, genetic counseling
may be advised for couples at risk of the disorder.

Treatment prevents attacks of weakness. Before an attack, there may be leg
stiffness or heaviness in the legs. Doing mild exercise when these symptoms
start may help prevent a full-blown attack.

## Alternative Names

Periodic paralysis - hypokalemic; Familial hypokalemic periodic paralysis;
HOKPP; HypoKPP; HypoPP

## References

Amato AA. Disorders of skeletal muscle. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta
JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 110.

Kerchner GA, Ptacek LJ. Channelopathies: episodic and electrical disorders of
nervous system. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SK, eds.
_Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 99.

Tilton AH. Acute neuromuscular diseases and disorders. In: Fuhrman BP,
Zimmerman JJ, eds. _Pediatric Critical Care_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 71.

Zhou J, Bose D, Allen PD, Pessah IN. Malignant hyperthermia and muscle-related
disorders. In: Miller RD, ed. _Miller's Anesthesia_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 43.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![ParÃ¡lisis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Paralysis_thumb.jpg)Paralysis
_Read more_

![Potassium](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Potassium_thumb.jpg)Potassium
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

