Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003181.htm    
                                Description: Heel pain is most often the result of overuse. However, it may be caused by an injury.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heel pain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003181.htm

# Heel pain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Heel pain is most often the result of overuse. However, it may be caused by an
injury.

Your heel may become tender or swollen from:

      * Shoes with poor support or shock absorption
      * Running on hard surfaces, like concrete
      * Running too often
      * Tightness in your calf muscle or the Achilles tendon
      * Sudden inward or outward turning of your heel
      * Landing hard or awkwardly on the heel 

Conditions that may cause heel pain include:

      * Swelling and pain in the Achilles tendon
      * Swelling of the fluid-filled sac (bursa) at the back of the heel bone under the Achilles tendon (bursitis)
      * Bone spurs in the heel
      * Swelling of the thick band of tissue on the bottom of your foot (plantar fasciitis)
      * Fracture of the heel bone that is related to landing very hard on your heel from a fall (calcaneus fracture)

## Home Care

The following steps may help relieve your heel pain:

      * Use crutches to take weight off your feet.
      * Rest as much as possible for at least a week.
      * Apply ice to the painful area. Do this at least twice a day for 10 to 15 minutes. Ice more often in the first couple of days.
      * Take acetaminophen or ibuprofen for the pain.
      * Wear well-fitted and supportive shoes.
      * Use a heel cup, felt pads in the heel area, or shoe insert.
      * Wear night splints. 

Your health care provider may recommend other treatments, depending on the
cause of your heel pain.

Maintaining flexible and strong muscles in your calves, ankles, and feet can
help prevent some types of heel pain. Always stretch and warm-up before
exercising.

Wear comfortable and well-fitting shoes with good arch support and cushioning.
Make sure there is enough room for your toes.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your heel pain does not get better after 2 to 3 weeks of
home treatment. Also call if:

      * Your pain is getting worse despite home treatment.
      * Your pain is sudden and severe.
      * You have redness or swelling of your heel.
      * You cannot put weight on your foot, even after resting.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions about your
medical history and symptoms, such as:

      * Have you had this type of heel pain before?
      * When did your pain begin?
      * Do you have pain upon your first steps in the morning or after your first steps after rest?
      * Is the pain dull and aching or sharp and stabbing?
      * Is it worse after exercise?
      * Is it worse when standing?
      * Did you fall or twist your ankle recently?
      * Are you a runner? If so, how far and how often do you run?
      * Do you walk or stand for long periods of time?
      * What kind of shoes do you wear?
      * Do you have any other symptoms?

Your provider may order a foot x-ray. You may need to see a physical therapist
to learn exercises to stretch and strengthen your foot. Your provider may
recommend a night splint to help stretch your foot. At times, further imaging,
like CT scan or MRI may be needed. Surgery may be recommended in some cases.

## Alternative Names

Pain - heel

## References

Grear BJ. Disorders of tendons and fascia and adolescent and adult pes planus.
In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_.
13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 82.

Kadakia AR. Heel pain and plantar fasciitis: hindfoot conditions. In: Miller
MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee & Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 119.

McGee DL. Podiatric procedures. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen TW, eds.
_Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine and Acute
Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 51.

## Review Date 3/20/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heel Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeelInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Heel
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

