Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007021.htm    
                                Description: The plantar fascia is the thick tissue on the bottom of the foot. It connects the heel bone to the toes and creates the arch of the foot. When this tissue becomes swollen or inflamed, it is called plantar    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Plantar fasciitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007021.htm

# Plantar fasciitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The plantar fascia is the thick tissue on the bottom of the foot. It connects
the heel bone to the toes and creates the arch of the foot. When this tissue
becomes swollen or inflamed, it is called plantar fasciitis.

![Plantar fascia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19567.jpg)

## Causes

Swelling occurs when the thick band of tissue on the bottom of the foot
(fascia) is overstretched or overused. This can be painful and make walking
more difficult.

![Plantar fasciitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19568.jpg)

You are more likely to get plantar fasciitis if you:

      * Have foot arch problems (both flat feet and high arches)
      * Run long distances, downhill or on uneven surfaces
      * Are obese or gain weight suddenly
      * Have a tight Achilles tendon (the tendon connecting the calf muscles to the heel)
      * Wear shoes with poor arch support or soft soles
      * Change your activities 

Plantar fasciitis is seen in both men and women. It is one of the most common
orthopedic foot complaints.

Plantar fasciitis was commonly thought to be caused by a heel spur. However,
research has found that this is not the case. On x-ray, heel spurs are seen in
people with and without plantar fasciitis.

## Symptoms

The most common symptom is pain and stiffness in the bottom of the heel. The
heel pain may be dull or sharp. The bottom of the foot may also ache or burn.

The pain is often worse:

      * In the morning when you take your first steps
      * After standing or sitting for awhile
      * When climbing stairs
      * After intense activity
      * During walking, running, and jumping sports 

The pain may develop slowly over time, or come on suddenly after intense
activity.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. This may show:

      * Pain on the bottom of your foot.
      * Pain along the sole of the foot.
      * Flat feet or high arches.
      * Mild foot swelling or redness.
      * Stiffness or tightness of the arch in the bottom of your foot. 
      * Stiffness or tightness with your Achilles tendon.

X-rays may be taken to rule out other problems.

## Treatment

Your provider will often recommend these steps first:

      * Acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) to reduce pain and inflammation. Heel and foot stretching exercises.
      * Night splints to wear while sleeping to stretch the foot.
      * Resting as much as possible for at least a week.
      * Wearing shoes with good support and cushions.

You can also apply ice to the painful area. Do this at least twice a day for
10 to 15 minutes, more often in the first couple of days.

If these treatments do not work, your provider may recommend:

      * Wearing a boot cast, which looks like a ski boot, for 3 to 6 weeks. It can be removed for bathing.
      * Custom-made shoe inserts (orthotics).
      * Steroid shots or injections into the heel.

Sometimes, foot surgery is needed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Nonsurgical treatments almost always improve the pain. Treatment can last from
several months to 2 years before symptoms get better. Most people feel better
within 6 to 18 months. Some people need surgery to relieve the pain.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if you have symptoms of plantar fasciitis.

## Prevention

Making sure your ankle, Achilles tendon, and calf muscles are flexible can
help prevent plantar fasciitis. Stretch your plantar fascia in the morning
before you get out of bed. Doing activities in moderation can also help.

## Images

      * ![Plantar fascia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19567t.jpg)Plantar fascia
      * ![Plantar fasciitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19568t.jpg)Plantar fasciitis

## References

Grear BJ. Disorders of tendons and fascia and adolescent and adult pes planus.
In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_.
13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 82.

Kadakia AR. Heel pain and plantar fasciitis: hindfoot conditions. In: Miller
MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine:
Principles and Practice_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 119.

McGee DL. Podiatric procedures. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen TW, eds.
_Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine and Acute
Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 51.

Silverstein JA, Moeller JL, Hutchinson MR. Common issues in orthopedics. In:
Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 8th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 30.

## Review Date 3/20/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heel Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeelInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Heel
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

