Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000546.htm    
                                Description: The Achilles tendon connects your calf muscles to your heel bone. Together, they help you push your heel off the ground and go up on your toes. You use these muscles and your Achilles tendon when you walk,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Achilles tendon rupture - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000546.htm

# Achilles tendon rupture - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The Achilles tendon connects your calf muscles to your heel bone. Together,
they help you push your heel off the ground and go up on your toes. You use
these muscles and your Achilles tendon when you walk, run, and jump.

If your Achilles tendon stretches too far, it can tear or rupture. If this
happens, you may:

      * Hear a snapping, cracking, or popping sound and feel a sharp pain in the back of your leg or ankle
      * Have trouble moving your foot to walk or go up stairs
      * Have difficulty standing on your toes
      * Have bruising or swelling in your leg or foot
      * Feel like the back of your ankle was hit with a bat

## About Your Injury

Most likely your injury occurred when you:

      * Suddenly pushed your foot off the ground, to go from walking to running, or to running uphill
      * Tripped and fell, or had another accident
      * Played a sport like tennis or basketball, with a lot of stopping and sharp turns

Most injuries can be diagnosed during a physical exam. You may need an MRI
scan to see what type of Achilles tendon tear you have. An MRI is a type of
imaging test.

      * A partial tear means at least some of the tendon is still OK.
      * A full tear means your tendon is torn completely and the 2 sides are not attached to each other. 

## What to Expect

If you have a complete tear, you may need surgery to repair your tendon. Your
doctor will discuss the pros and cons of surgery with you. Before surgery, you
will wear a special boot that keeps you from moving your lower leg and foot.

For a partial tear:

      * You may need surgery.
      * Instead of surgery, you may need to wear a cast, leg brace, splint, or boot for about 6 weeks. During this time, your tendon grows back together. 

If you have a cast, it will cover your foot and go to your knee. Your toes
will be pointing downward. The cast will be changed every 2 to 3 weeks to help
stretch your tendon.

If you have a leg brace, splint, or boot, it will keep you from moving your
foot. This will prevent further injury. You can walk once your doctor says it
is OK to.

## Symptom Relief

To relieve swelling:

      * Put an ice pack on the area right after you injure it.
      * Use pillows to raise your leg above the level of your heart when you sleep.
      * Keep your foot elevated when you are sitting. 

You can take ibuprofen (such as Advil or Motrin), naproxen (such as Aleve or
Naprosyn), or acetaminophen (such as Tylenol) for pain.

Remember to:

      * Talk with your health care provider if you have heart disease, liver disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, or have had stomach ulcers or bleeding.
      * Consider quitting smoking (smoking can affect healing after surgery).
      * NOT give aspirin to children under 12.
      * NOT take more pain killer than the dosage recommended on the bottle or by your provider. 

## Rehab and Activity

At some point as you recover, your provider will ask you to begin moving your
heel. This may be as soon as 2 to 3 weeks or as long 6 weeks after your
injury.

With the help of physical therapy, most people can return to normal activity
in 4 to 6 months. In physical therapy, you will learn exercises to make your
calf muscles stronger and your Achilles tendon more flexible.

When you stretch your calf muscles, do so slowly. Also, do not bounce or use
too much force when you use your leg.

After you heal, you are at greater risk for injuring your Achilles tendon
again. You will need to:

      * Stay in good shape and stretch before any exercise
      * Avoid high-heeled shoes
      * Ask your provider if it is OK for you to play tennis, racquetball, basketball, and other sports where you stop and start
      * Do proper amount of warm up and stretching ahead of time

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have any of these symptoms:

      * Swelling or pain in your leg, ankle, or foot becomes worse
      * Purple color to leg or foot
      * Fever 
      * Swelling in your calf and foot
      * Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing

Also call your provider if you have questions or concerns that cannot wait
until your next visit.

## Alternative Names

Heel cord tear; Calcaneal tendon rupture

## References

Rose NGW, Green TJ. Ankle and foot. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 51.

Sokolove PE, Barnes DK. Extensor and flexor tendon injuries in the hand,
wrist, and foot. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and
Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 48.

## Review Date 4/9/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Heel Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

