Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000014.htm    
                                Description: You have had all or part of your leg amputated. You may have had an accident, or your leg may have had a blood clot, infection, or disease, and doctors could not save it.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Leg amputation - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000014.htm

# Leg amputation - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You have had all or part of your leg amputated. You may have had an accident,
or your leg may have had a blood clot, infection, or disease, and doctors
could not save it.

## What to Expect at Home

You may feel sad, angry, frustrated and depressed. All of these feelings are
normal and may arise in the hospital or when you get home.

It will take time for you to learn to use a walker, and a wheelchair. It will
also take time to learn to get in and out of the wheelchair.

You may be getting a prosthesis, a man-made limb to replace your limb that was
removed. It will take time for your prosthesis to be made. When you have it,
getting used to it will also take time.

You may have pain in your limb for several days after your surgery. You may
also have a feeling that your limb is still there. This is called phantom
sensation.

## Self-care

Family and friends can help. Talking with them about your feelings may make
you feel better. They can also help you do things around your house and when
you go out.

If you feel sad or depressed, ask your health care provider about seeing a
mental health counselor for help with your feelings about your amputation.

If you have diabetes, keep your blood sugar in good control.

If you have poor blood flow, follow your provider's instructions for diet and
medicines. Your provider may give you medicines for your pain.

You may eat your normal foods when you get home.

If you smoke before your injury, stop after your surgery. Smoking can affect
blood flow and slow down healing. Ask your provider for help on how to quit.

## Activity

Do things that will help you get stronger and do your daily activities, such
as bathing and cooking. You should try to do as much as possible on your own.

When you are sitting, keep your stump straight and level. You can put your
stump on a padded board to keep it straight when you are sitting. You can also
lie on your belly to make sure your leg is straight. This can help keep your
joints from getting stiff.

Try not to turn your stump in or out when you are lying in bed or sitting in a
chair. You can use rolled up towels or blankets next to your legs to keep them
in line with your body.

DO NOT cross your legs when you are sitting. It can stop the blood flow to
your stump.

You may raise up the foot of your bed to keep your stump from swelling and to
help ease pain. DO NOT place a pillow under your stump.

## Wound and Stump Care

Keep your wound clean and dry unless your provider tells you it is OK to get
it wet. Clean the area around the wound gently with mild soap and water. DO
NOT rub the incision. Allow water to flow gently over it. DO NOT take a bath
or swim.

After your wound is healed, keep it open to the air unless a provider or nurse
tells you something different. After dressings have been removed, wash your
stump daily with mild soap and water. DO NOT soak it. Dry it well.

Inspect your stump everyday. Use a mirror if it is hard for you to see all
around it. Look for any red areas or dirt.

Wear your elastic bandage all the time. Rewrap it every 2 to 4 hours. Make
sure there are no creases in it. Wear your stump protector whenever you are
out of bed.

Ask your provider for help with pain. Two things that may help are:

      * Tapping along the scar and in small circles along the stump, if that is not painful
      * Rubbing the scar and stump gently with linen or soft cotton 

Lie on your stomach 3 or 4 times a day for about 20 minutes. This will stretch
out your hip muscle. If you had a below-the-knee amputation, you may put a
pillow behind your calf to help straighten your knee.

Practice transfers at home.

      * Go from your bed to your wheelchair, a chair, or the toilet.
      * Go from a chair to your wheelchair.
      * Go from your wheelchair to the toilet. 

Stay as active with your walker as you can.

Ask your provider for advice about how to avoid constipation.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

      * Your stump looks redder or there are red streaks on your skin going up your leg
      * Your skin feels warmer to touch
      * There is swelling or bulging around the wound
      * There is new drainage or bleeding from the wound
      * There are new openings in the wound, or the skin around the wound is pulling away
      * Your temperature is above 101.5Â°F (38.6Â°C) more than once
      * Your skin around the stump or wound is dark or it is turning black
      * Your pain is worse and your pain medicines are not controlling it
      * Your wound has gotten larger
      * A foul smell is coming from the wound 

## Alternative Names

Amputation - leg - discharge; Below knee amputation - discharge; BK amputation
- discharge; Above knee - discharge; AK - discharge; Trans-femoral amputation
- discharge; Trans-tibial amputation - discharge

## Images

      * ![Stump care](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22864t.jpg)Stump care

## References

Lavelle DG. Amputations of the lower extremity. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale
ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 16.

Rose E. Management of amputations. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen TW,
eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine and Acute
Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 47.

US Department of Veterans Affairs website. VA/DoD clinical practice guideline:
Rehabilitation of lower limb amputation (2017).
www.healthquality.va.gov/guidelines/Rehab/amp. Updated October 3, 2017.
Accessed May 14, 2018.

## Read More

      * Blastomycosis
      * Compartment syndrome
      * Leg or foot amputation
      * Peripheral artery disease - legs
      * Tips on how to quit smoking
      * Traumatic amputation
      * Type 1 diabetes
      * Type 2 diabetes

## Patient Instructions

      * Bathroom safety for adults
      * Controlling your high blood pressure
      * Diabetes - foot ulcers
      * Foot amputation - discharge
      * Leg or foot amputation - dressing change
      * Managing your blood sugar
      * Phantom limb pain
      * Preventing falls
      * Preventing falls - what to ask your doctor 
      * Surgical wound care - open

## Review Date 4/9/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Limb Loss

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

