Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000050.htm    
                                Description: After one of your limbs is amputated, you may feel as if the limb is still there. This is called phantom sensation. You may feel:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Phantom limb pain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000050.htm

# Phantom limb pain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

After one of your limbs is amputated, you may feel as if the limb is still
there. This is called phantom sensation. You may feel:

      * Pain in your limb even though it is physically not there
      * Tingly
      * Prickly
      * Numb
      * Hot or cold
      * Like your missing toes or fingers are moving
      * Like your missing limb is still there, or is in a funny position
      * Like your missing limb is getting shorter (telescoping) 

## What to Expect

These feeling slowly get weaker and weaker. You should also feel them less
often. They may not ever go away completely.

Pain in the missing part of the arm or leg is called phantom pain. You may
feel:

      * Sharp or shooting pain
      * Achy pain
      * Burning pain
      * Cramping pain 

Some things may make phantom pain worse, such as:

      * Being too tired
      * Putting too much pressure on the stump or parts of the arm or leg that are still there
      * Changes in the weather
      * Stress
      * Infection
      * An artificial limb that does not fit properly
      * Poor blood flow
      * Swelling in the part of the arm or leg that is still there 

##  Self-care

Try to relax in a way that works for you. Do deep breathing or pretend to
relax the missing arm or leg.

Reading, listening to music, or doing something that takes your mind off the
pain may help. You may also try taking a warm bath if your surgery wound is
completely healed.

Ask your health care provider if you can take acetaminophen (Tylenol),
aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil or Motrin), or other medicines that help with pain.

The following may also help lessen phantom pain.

      * Keep the remaining part of your arm or leg warm.
      * Move or exercise the remaining part of your arm or leg.
      * If you are wearing your prosthesis, take it off. If you are not wearing it, put it on.
      * If you have swelling in the remaining part of your arm or leg, try wearing an elastic bandage.
      * Wear a shrinker sock or compression stocking.
      * Try gently tapping or rubbing your stump. 

## Alternative Names

Amputation - phantom limb

## References

Bang MS, Jung SH. Phantom limb pain. In: Frontera WR, Silver JK, Rizzo TD,
eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 3rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 107.

Dinakar P. Principles of pain management. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta
JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 54.

Nikolajsen L, Springer JS, Haroutiunian S. Phantom limb pain. In: Benzon HT,
Rathmell JP, Wu CL, Turk DC, Argoff CE, Hurley RW, eds. _Practical Management
of Pain_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Mosby; 2014:chap 26.

Waldman SD. Phantom limb pain. In: Waldman SD, ed. _Atlas of Common Pain
Syndromes_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 103.

## Read More

      * Leg or foot amputation

## Patient Instructions

      * Bathroom safety for adults
      * Controlling your high blood pressure
      * Diabetes - foot ulcers
      * Foot amputation - discharge
      * Leg amputation - discharge
      * Leg or foot amputation - dressing change
      * Managing your blood sugar
      * Preventing falls
      * Surgical wound care - open

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Limb Loss

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

