Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000006.htm    
                                Description: Traumatic amputation is the loss of a body part, usually a finger, toe, arm, or leg, that occurs as the result of an accident or injury.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Traumatic amputation

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000006.htm

# Traumatic amputation

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Traumatic amputation is the loss of a body part, usually a finger, toe, arm,
or leg, that occurs as the result of an accident or injury.

## Considerations

If an accident or trauma results in complete amputation (the body part is
totally severed), the part sometimes can be reattached, often when proper care
is taken of the severed part and stump, or residual limb.

In a partial amputation, some soft-tissue connection remains. Depending on how
severe the injury is, the partially severed extremity may or may not be able
to be reattached.

Complications can occur when a body part is amputated. The most important of
these are bleeding, shock, and infection.

Long-term outcome for an amputee depends on early emergency and critical care
management. A well-fitting and functional prosthesis and retraining can speed
rehabilitation.

## Causes

Traumatic amputations usually result from factory, farm, power tool accidents,
or from motor vehicle accidents. Natural disasters, war, and terrorist attacks
can also cause traumatic amputations.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Bleeding (may be minimal or severe, depending on the location and nature of the injury)
      * Pain (the degree of pain is not always related to the severity of the injury or the amount of bleeding)
      * Crushed body tissue (badly mangled, but still partially attached by muscle, bone, tendon, or skin)

## First Aid

      1. Check the person's airway (open if necessary); check breathing and circulation. If necessary, begin rescue breathing, cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), or bleeding control.
      2. Try to calm and reassure the person as much as possible. Amputation is painful andÂ very frightening.
      3. Control bleeding by applying direct pressure to the wound. Raise the injured area. If bleeding continues, recheck the source of the bleeding and reapply direct pressure, with help from someone who is not tired. If the person has life-threatening bleeding, a tight bandage or tourniquet will be easier to use than direct pressure on the wound. However, using a tight bandage for a long time may do more harm than good. 
      4. Save any severed body parts and make sure theyÂ stay with the person. If possible, removeÂ any dirty material that can contaminate the wound, then gently rinse the body part if the cut end is dirty. 
      5. Wrap the severed part in a clean, damp cloth, place it in a sealed plastic bag and place the bag in an ice water bath. 
      6. DO NOT put the body part directly in water without using a plastic bag.
      7. DOÂ NOT put the severed part directly on ice. DO NOT use dry ice as this will cause frostbite and injury to the part. 
      8. If cold water is not available, keep the part away from heat as much as possible. Save it for the medical team, or take it to the hospital. Cooling the severed part allows reattachment to be done at a later time. Without cooling, the severed part is only good for reattachment for about 4 to 6 hours.
      9. Keep the person warm. 
      10. Take steps to prevent shock. Lay the person flat, raise the feet about 12 inches (30 centimeters), and cover the person with a coat or blanket. DO NOT place the person in this position if a head, neck, back, or leg injury is suspected or if it makes the victim uncomfortable.
      11. Once the bleeding is under control, check the person for other signs of injury that require emergency treatment. Treat fractures, additional cuts, and other injuries appropriately.
      12. Stay with the person until medical help arrives.

## DO NOT

      * DO NOT forget that saving the person's life is more important than saving a body part.
      * DO NOT overlook other less obvious injuries.
      * DO NOT attempt to push any part back into place.
      * DO NOT decide that a body part is too small to save.
      * DO NOT place a tourniquet, unless the bleeding is life threatening, as the entire limb may be harmed.
      * DO NOT raise false hopes of reattachment.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If someone severs a limb, finger, toe, or other body part, you should call
right away for emergency medical help.

## Prevention

Use safety equipment when using factory, farm, or power tools. Wear seat belts
when driving a motor vehicle. Always use good judgment and observe appropriate
safety precautions.

## Alternative Names

Loss of a body part

## Patient Instructions

      * Foot amputation - discharge
      * Leg amputation - discharge

## Images

      * ![Amputation repair](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8722t.jpg)Amputation repair

## References

American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons website. Fingertip injuries and
amputations. orthoinfo.aaos.org/en/diseases--conditions/fingertip-injuries-
and-amputations. Updated July 2016. Accessed September 14, 2018.

Rose E. Management of amputations. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen TW,
eds. _Roberts & Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine and Acute
Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 47.

Switzer JA, Bovard RS, Quinn RH. Wilderness orthopedics. In: Auerbach PS,
Cushing TA, Harris NS, eds. _Auerbach's Wilderness Medicine._ 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 22.

## Review Date 8/15/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Limb Loss](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LimbLoss_thumb.jpg)Limb Loss _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

