Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000925.htm    
                                Description: Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a type of anxiety disorder. It can occur after you have gone through an extreme emotional trauma that involved the threat of injury or death.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Post-traumatic stress disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000925.htm

# Post-traumatic stress disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a type of anxiety disorder. It can
occur after you have gone through an extreme emotional trauma that involved
the threat of injury or death.

## Causes

Health care providers do not know why traumatic events cause PTSD in some
people, but not in others. Your genes, emotions, and family setting may all
play roles. Past emotional trauma may increase your risk of PTSD after a
recent traumatic event.

With PTSD, the body's response to a stressful event is changed. Normally,
after the event, the body recovers. The stress hormones and chemicals the body
releases due to the stress go back to normal levels. For some reason in a
person with PTSD, the body keeps releasing the stress hormones and chemicals.

PTSD can occur at any age. It can occur after events such as:

      * Assault
      * Car accidents
      * Domestic abuse
      * Natural disasters
      * Prison stay
      * Sexual assault
      * Terrorism
      * War 

## Symptoms

There are 4 types of PTSD symptoms:

1\. Reliving the event, which disturbs day-to-day activity

      * Flashback episodes in which the event seems to be happening again and again
      * Repeated upsetting memories of the event
      * Repeated nightmares of the event
      * Strong, uncomfortable reactions to situations that remind you of the event 

2\. Avoidance

      * Emotional numbing or feeling as though you do not care about anything
      * Feeling detached
      * Not able to remember important parts of the event
      * Not interested in normal activities
      * Showing less of your moods
      * Avoiding places, people, or thoughts that remind you of the event
      * Feeling like you have no future 

3\. Hyperarousal

      * Always scanning your surroundings for signs of danger (hypervigilance)
      * Not able to concentrate
      * Startling easily
      * Feeling irritable or having outbursts of anger
      * Trouble falling or staying asleep 

4\. Negative thoughts and mood or feelings

      * Constant guilt about the event, including survivor guilt
      * Blaming others for the event
      * Not being able to recall important parts of the event
      * Loss of interest in activities or other people

You may also have symptoms of anxiety, stress, and tension:

      * Agitation or excitability
      * Dizziness
      * Fainting
      * Feeling your heart beat in your chest
      * Headache 

## Exams and Tests

Your provider may ask how long you have had symptoms. PTSD is diagnosed when
you have had symptoms for at least 30 days.

Your provider may also do a mental health exam, physical exam, and blood
tests. These are done to look for other illnesses that are similar to PTSD.

## Treatment

Treatment for PTSD involves talk therapy (counseling), medicines, or both.

TALK THERAPY

During talk therapy, you talk with a mental health professional, such as a
psychiatrist or therapist, in a calm and accepting setting. They can help you
manage your PTSD symptoms. They will also guide you as you work through your
feelings about the trauma.

There are many types of talk therapy. One type that is often used for PTSD is
called desensitization. During therapy, you are encouraged to remember the
traumatic event and express your feelings about it. Over time, memories of the
event become less frightening.

During talk therapy, you may also learn ways to relax, such as when you start
to have flashbacks.

MEDICINES

Your provider may suggest that you take medicines. They can help ease your
depression or anxiety. They can also help you sleep better. Medicines need
time to work. DO NOT stop taking them or change the amount (dosage) you take
without talking to your provider. Ask your provider about possible side
effects and what to do if you experience them.

## Support Groups

Support groups, whose members are people who have similar experiences with
PTSD, can be helpful. Ask your provider about groups in your area.

Support groups are usually not a good substitute for talk therapy or taking
medicine, but can be a helpful addition.

Resources for more information include:

Anxiety and Depression Association of America -- adaa.org

National Institute of Mental Health -- www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/post-
traumatic-stress-disorder-ptsd/index.shtml

US Department of Veterans Affairs -- www.ptsd.va.gov

## Outlook (Prognosis)

PTSD can be treated. You can increase the chance of a good outcome:

      * See a provider right away if you think you have PTSD. 
      * Take an active part in your treatment and follow your provider's instructions. 
      * Accept support from others. 
      * Take care of your health. Exercise and eat healthy foods. 
      * DO NOT drink alcohol or use recreational drugs. These can make your PTSD worse. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Although traumatic events can cause distress, not all feelings of distress are
symptoms of PTSD. Talk about your feelings with friends and relatives. If your
symptoms do not improve soon or are making you very upset, contact your
provider.

Seek help right away if:

      * You feel overwhelmed
      * You are thinking of hurting yourself or anyone else
      * You are unable to control your behavior
      * You have other very upsetting symptoms of PTSD 

## Alternative Names

PTSD

## Images

      * ![Post-traumatic stress disorder](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17272t.jpg)Post-traumatic stress disorder

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Trauma- and stressor-related disorders. In:
American Psychiatric Association, ed. _Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of
Mental Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing;
2013:265-290.

Dekel S, Gilbertson MW, Orr SP, Rauch SL, Wood NE, Pitman RK. Trauma and
posttraumatic stress disorder. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF,
eds. _Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 34.

Lyness JM. Psychiatric disorders in medical practice. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 397.

## Review Date 3/26/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Post-Traumatic Stress
Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PTSD_thumb.jpg)Post-Traumatic Stress
Disorder _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

