Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003095.htm    
                                Description: Cold intolerance is an abnormal sensitivity to a cold environment or cold temperatures.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cold intolerance

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003095.htm

# Cold intolerance

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cold intolerance is an abnormal sensitivity to a cold environment or cold
temperatures.

## Considerations

Cold intolerance can be a symptom of a problem with metabolism.

Some people (often very thin women) do not tolerate cold temperatures because
they have very little body fat to help keep them warm.

## Causes

Some causes of cold intolerance are:

      * Anemia
      * Anorexia nervosa
      * Blood vessel problems, such as Raynaud phenomenon
      * Chronic severe illness
      * General poor health
      * Underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism)
      * Problem with the hypothalamus (a part of the brain that controls many body functions, including body temperature) 

## Home Care

Follow the recommended therapy for treating the cause of the problem.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have long-term or extreme intolerance to
cold.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will take a medical history and perform a physical examination.

Your provider's questions may include the following topics.

Time pattern:

      * Have you always been intolerant of cold?
      * Has this developed recently?
      * Has it been getting worse?
      * Do you often feel cold when other people do not complain of being cold?

Medical history:

      * What is your diet like?
      * How is your general health?
      * What are your height and weight?
      * What other symptoms do you have?

Tests that may be performed include:

      * Complete blood count (CBC)
      * Serum TSH
      * Thyroid hormone levels

If your provider diagnoses cold intolerance, you may want to include the
diagnosis in your personal medical record.

## Alternative Names

Sensitivity to the cold; Intolerance to cold

## References

Brent GA, Weetman AP. Hypothyroidism and thyroiditis. In: Melmed S, Polonsky
KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 13.

Kim M, Ladenson PW. Thyroid. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 226.

Sawka MN, O'Connor FG. Disorders due to heat and cold. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 109.

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hypothermia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hypothermia_thumb.jpg)Hypothermia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

