Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000866.htm    
                                Description: If you work or play outside during the winter, you need to know how cold affects your body. Being active in the cold can put you at risk for problems such as hypothermia and frostbite.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

How to prevent frostbite and hypothermia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000866.htm

# How to prevent frostbite and hypothermia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If you work or play outside during the winter, you need to know how cold
affects your body. Being active in the cold can put you at risk for problems
such as hypothermia and frostbite.

## How Cold Affects you

Cold temperatures, wind, rain, and even sweat cool your skin and pull heat
away from your body. You also lose heat when you breathe and sit or stand on
the cold ground or other cold surfaces.

In cold weather, your body tries to keep a warm inner (core) temperature to
protect your vital organs. It does this by slowing blood circulation in your
face, arms, hands, legs, and feet. The skin and tissues in these areas becomes
colder. This puts you at risk for frostbite.

If your core body temperature drops just a few degrees, hypothermia will set
in. With even mild hypothermia, your brain and body DO NOT work as well.
Severe hypothermia can lead to death.

 **Dress in Layers**

They key to staying safe in the cold is to wear several layers of clothing.
Wearing the right shoes and clothes helps:

      * Keep your body heat trapped inside your clothes
      * Protect you from cold air, wind, snow, or rain
      * Protect you from contact with cold surfaces 

You may need several layers of clothing in cold weather:

      * An inner layer that wicks sweat away from the skin. It can be lightweight wool, polyester, or polypropylene (polypro). Never wear cotton in cold weather, including your underwear. Cotton absorbs moisture and keeps it next to your skin, making you cold.
      * Middle layers that insulate and keep heat in. They can be polyester fleece, wool, microfiber insulation, or down. Depending on your activity, you may need a couple of insulating layers.
      * An outer layer that repels wind, snow, and rain. Try to choose a fabric that is both breathable and rain and wind proof. If your outer layer is not also breathable, sweat can build up and make you cold. 

You also need to protect your hands, feet, neck, and face. Depending on your
activity, you may need the following:

      * Warm hat
      * Face mask
      * Scarf or neck warmer
      * Mittens or gloves (mittens tend to be warmer)
      * Wool or polypro socks
      * Warm, waterproof shoes or boots 

The key with all of your layers is to take them off as you warm up and add
them back as you cool down. If you wear too much while exercising, you will
sweat a lot, which can make you colder.

## Get Plenty of Food and Fluids

You need both food and fluids to fuel your body and keep you warm. If you
skimp on either, you increase your risk for cold weather injuries such as
hypothermia and frostbite.

Eating foods with carbohydrates gives you quick energy. If you are only out
for a short time, you may want to carry a snack bar to keep your energy going.
If you are out all day skiing, hiking, or working, be sure to bring food with
protein and fat as well to fuel you over many hours.

Drink plenty of fluids before and during activities in the cold. You may not
feel as thirsty in cold weather, but you still lose fluids through your sweat
and when you breathe.

## Watch for Early Signs of Frostbite and Hypothermia

Be aware of the early signs of cold weather injuries. Frostbite and
hypothermia can occur at the same time.

The early stage of frostbite is called frostnip. Signs include:

      * Red and cold skin; skin may start to turn white but is still soft.
      * Prickling and numbness
      * Tingling
      * Stinging 

Early warning signs of hypothermia include:

      * Feeling cold.
      * Shivering.
      * The "Umbles:" stumbles, bumbles, grumbles, and mumbles. These are signs that cold is affecting your body and brain. 

To prevent more serious problems, take action as soon as you notice early
signs of frostbite or hypothermia.

      * Get out of the cold, wind, rain, or snow if possible.
      * Add warm layers of clothing.
      * Eat carbohydrates.
      * Drink fluids.
      * Move your body to help warm your core. Do jumping jacks or flap your arms.
      * Warm up any area with frostnip. Remove tight jewelry or clothing. Place cold fingers in your armpits or warm a cold nose or cheek with the palm of your warm hand. DO NOT rub. 

## When to Call the Doctor

You should call your health care provider or get medical help right away if
you or someone in your party:

      * Does not get better or gets worse after attempting to warm up or to rewarm frostnip.
      * Has frostbite. NEVER rewarm frostbite on your own. It can be very painful and damaging.
      * Shows signs of hypothermia.

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. National Institute for
Occupational Safety and Health. Fast facts: protecting yourself from cold
stress. www.cdc.gov/niosh/docs/2010-115/pdfs/2010-115.pdf. Accessed August 13,
2016.

Fudge J. Preventing and managing hypothermia and frostbite injury. _Sports
Health_. 2016;8(2):133-139. PMID: 26857732
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26857732.

Zafren K, Danzl DF. Frostbite and nonfreezing cold injuries. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and
Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 131.

## Review Date 8/3/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Frostbite
      * Hypothermia

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

