Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000038.htm    
                                Description: Hypothermia is dangerously low body temperature, below 95Â°F (35Â°C).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hypothermia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000038.htm

# Hypothermia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hypothermia is dangerously low body temperature, below 95Â°F (35Â°C).

## Considerations

Other types of cold injuries that affect the limbs are called peripheral cold
injuries. Of these, frostbite is the most common freezing injury. Nonfreezing
injuries that occur from exposure to cold wet conditions include trench foot
and immersion foot conditions. Chilblains (also known as pernio) are small,
itchy or painful lumps on the skin that often occur on the fingers, ears, or
toes. They are a type of nonfreezing injury that develops in cold, dry
conditions.

You are more likely to develop hypothermia if you are:

      * Very old or very young
      * Chronically ill, especially people who have heart or blood flow problems
      * Malnourished
      * Overly tired
      * Taking certain prescription medicines
      * Under the influence of alcohol or drugs 

## Causes

Hypothermia occurs when more heat is lost than the body can make. In most
cases, it occurs after long periods in the cold.

Common causes include:

      * Being outside without enough protective clothing in winter
      * Falling into cold water of a lake, river, or other body of water
      * Wearing wet clothing in windy or cold weather
      * Heavy exertion, not drinking enough fluids, or not eating enough in cold weather 

## Symptoms

As a person develops hypothermia, they slowly lose the ability to think and
move. In fact, they may even be unaware that they need emergency treatment.
Someone with hypothermia also is likely to have frostbite.

The symptoms include:

      * Drowsiness
      * Weakness and loss of coordination
      * Pale and cold skin
      * Confusion
      * Uncontrollable shivering (although at extremely low body temperatures, shivering may stop)
      * Slowed breathing or heart rate

Lethargy, cardiac arrest, shock, and coma can set in without prompt treatment.
Hypothermia can be fatal.

## First Aid

Take the following steps if you think someone has hypothermia:

      1. If the person has any symptoms of hypothermia that are present, especially confusion or problems thinking, call 911 right away.
      2. If the person is unconscious, check airway, breathing, and circulation. If necessary, begin rescue breathing or CPR. If the victim is breathing fewer than 6 breaths per minute, begin rescue breathing.
      3. Take the person inside to room temperature and cover with warm blankets. If going indoors is not possible, get the person out of the wind and use a blanket to provide insulation from the cold ground. Cover the person's head and neck to help retain body heat.
      4. Victims of severe hypothermia should be removed from the cold environment with as little exertion as possible. This helps to avoid warmth from being shunted from the person's core to the muscles. In a very mildly hypothermic person, muscular exercise is thought to be safe, however.
      5. Once inside, remove any wet or tight clothes and replace them with dry clothing.
      6. Warm the person. If necessary, use your own body heat to aid the warming. Apply warm compresses to the neck, chest wall, and groin. If the person is alert and can easily swallow, give warm, sweetened, nonalcoholic fluids to aid the warming.
      7. Stay with the person until medical help arrives.

## DO NOT

Follow these precautions:

      * DO NOT assume that someone found lying motionless in the cold is already dead.
      * DO NOT use direct heat (such as hot water, a heating pad, or a heat lamp) to warm the person.
      * DO NOT give the person alcohol.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call 911 anytime you suspect someone has hypothermia. Give first aid while
waiting for emergency help.

## Prevention

Before you spend time outside in the cold, DO NOT drink alcohol or smoke.
Drink plenty of fluids and get enough food and rest.

Wear proper clothing in cold temperatures to protect your body. These include:

      * Mittens (not gloves)
      * Wind-proof, water-resistant, many-layered clothing
      * Two pairs of socks (avoid cotton)
      * Scarf and hat that cover the ears (to avoid major heat loss through the top of your head) 

Avoid:

      * Extremely cold temperatures, especially with high winds
      * Wet clothes
      * Poor circulation, which is more likely from age, tight clothing or boots, cramped positions, fatigue, certain medicines, smoking, and alcohol

## Alternative Names

Low body temperature; Cold exposure; Exposure

## Images

      * ![Exercise - dress appropriately](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19481t.jpg)Exercise - dress appropriately
      * ![Skin layers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8912t.jpg)Skin layers

## References

Giesbrecht GG. Cold stress, near drowning and accidental hypothermia: a
review. _Aviat Space Environ Med_. 2000;71(7):733-752. PMID: 10902937
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10902937.

Sawka MN, O'Connor FG. Disorders due to heat and cold. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 109.

Zafren K, Danzl DF. Frostbite and nonfreezing cold injuries. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and
Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 131.

Zafren K, Danzl DF. Accidental hypothermia. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 132.

## Review Date 10/16/2017

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hypothermia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hypothermia_thumb.jpg)Hypothermia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

