Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003594.htm    
                                Description: Trypsin and chymotrypsin are substances released from the pancreas during normal digestion. When the pancreas does not produce enough trypsin and chymotrypsin, smaller-than-normal amounts can be seen in    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Trypsin and chymotrypsin in stool

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003594.htm

# Trypsin and chymotrypsin in stool

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Trypsin and chymotrypsin are substances released from the pancreas during
normal digestion. When the pancreas does not produce enough trypsin and
chymotrypsin, smaller-than-normal amounts can be seen in a stool sample.

This article discusses the test to measure trypsin and chymotrypsin in stool.

## How the Test is Performed

There are many ways to collect the samples. Your health care provider will
tell you how to collect the stool.

You can catch the stool on plastic wrap that is loosely placed over the toilet
bowl and held in place by the toilet seat. Then put the sample in a clean
container. One type of test kit contains a special tissue that you use to
collect the sample. Then you put the sample in a clean container.

To collect a sample from infants and young children:

      * If the child wears a diaper, line the diaper with plastic wrap.
      * Place the plastic wrap so that urine and stool do not mix.

A drop of stool is placed on a thin layer of gelatin. If trypsin or
chymotrypsin are present, the gelatin will clear.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your provider will provide you with the supplies needed to collect the stool.

## Why the Test is Performed

These tests are simple ways of finding out whether you have a decrease in
pancreas function. This is most often due to chronic pancreatitis.

These tests are most often done in young children who are thought to have
cystic fibrosis.

Note: This test is used as a screening tool for cystic fibrosis, but it does
not diagnose cystic fibrosis. Other tests are needed to confirm a diagnosis of
cystic fibrosis.

## Normal Results

The result is normal if there is a normal amount of trypsin or chymotrypsin in
the stool.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result means the trypsin or chymotrypsin levels in your stool are
below the normal range. This may mean that your pancreas is not working
properly. Other tests may be done to confirm that there is a problem with your
pancreas.

## Alternative Names

Stool - trypsin and chymotrypsin

## Images

      * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs
      * ![Pancreas](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17194t.jpg)Pancreas

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Trypsin - plasma or serum. In: Chernecky CC, Berger
BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:1126.

Forsmark CE. Chronic pancreatitis. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 59.

Liddle RA. Regulation of pancreatic secretion. In: Said HM, ed. _Physiology of
the Gastrointestinal Tract_. 6th ed. San Diego, CA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 40.

Siddiqi HA, Salwen MJ, Shaikh MF, Bowne WB. Laboratory diagnosis of
gastrointestinal and pancreatic disorders. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 22.

## Review Date 1/1/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cystic
Fibrosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CysticFibrosis_thumb.jpg)Cystic
Fibrosis _Read more_

![Pancreatic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PancreaticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Pancreatic
Diseases _Read more_

![Pancreatitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pancreatitis_thumb.jpg)Pancreatitis
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

