Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000247.htm    
                                Description: Pancreas divisum is a birth defect in which parts of the pancreas do not join together. The pancreas is a long, flat organ located between the stomach and spine. It helps in food digestion.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pancreas divisum

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000247.htm

# Pancreas divisum

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pancreas divisum is a birth defect in which parts of the pancreas do not join
together. The pancreas is a long, flat organ located between the stomach and
spine. It helps in food digestion.

## Causes

Pancreas divisum is the most common birth defect of the pancreas. In many
cases, this defect goes undetected and causes no problems. The cause of the
defect is unknown.

As a baby develops in the womb, two separate pieces of tissue join together to
form the pancreas. Each part has a tube, called a duct. When the parts join
together, a final duct, called the pancreatic duct, is formed. Fluid and
digestive juices (enzymes) produced by the pancreas normally flow through this
duct.

Pancreas divisum occurs if the ducts do not join while the baby develops.
Fluid from the two parts of the pancreas drains into separate areas of the
upper portion of the small intestine (duodenum). This occurs in 5% to 15% of
people.

If a pancreatic duct becomes blocked, swelling and tissue damage
(pancreatitis) may develop.

## Symptoms

Many people do not have any symptoms. If you have pancreatitis, symptoms
include:

      * Abdominal pain, most often in the upper abdomen that may be felt in the back
      * Abdominal swelling (distention)
      * Nausea or vomiting 

## Exams and Tests

You may have the following tests:

      * Abdominal ultrasound
      * Abdominal CT scan
      * Amylase and lipase blood test
      * Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP)
      * Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP)
      * Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) 

## Treatment

The following treatments may be needed if you have symptoms of the condition,
or if pancreatitis keeps returning:

      * ERCP with a cut to enlarge the opening where the pancreatic duct drains
      * Placement of a stent to prevent the duct from getting blocked 

You may need surgery if these treatments do not work.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most of the time, the outcome is good.

## Possible Complications

The main complication of pancreas divisum is pancreatitis.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you develop symptoms of this disorder.

## Prevention

Because this condition is present at birth, there is no known way to prevent
it.

## Alternative Names

Pancreatic divisum

## Images

      * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
      * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
      * ![Pancreas](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8883t.jpg)Pancreas

## References

Adams DB, Cote GA. Pancreas divisum and other variants of dominant dorsal duct
anatomy. In: Cameron JL, Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:502-509.

Barth BA, Husain SZ. Anatomy, histology, embryology and developmental
anomalies of the pancreas. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 55.

Forsmark CE. Pancreatitis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 144.

## Review Date 9/29/2017

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pancreatic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PancreaticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Pancreatic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

