Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000272.htm    
                                Description: A pancreatic pseudocyst is a fluid-filled sac in the abdomen that arises from the pancreas. It may also contain tissue from the pancreas, enzymes, and blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pancreatic pseudocyst

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000272.htm

# Pancreatic pseudocyst

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A pancreatic pseudocyst is a fluid-filled sac in the abdomen that arises from
the pancreas. It may also contain tissue from the pancreas, enzymes, and
blood.

## Causes

The pancreas is an organ located behind the stomach. It produces chemicals
(called enzymes) needed to digest food. It also produces the hormones insulin
and glucagon.

Pancreatic pseudocysts most often develop after an episode of severe
pancreatitis. Pancreatitis happens when your pancreas get inflamed. There are
many causes of this problem.

This problem may sometimes occur:

      * In someone with long-term (chronic)Â swelling of the pancreas
      * After trauma to the belly, more often in children

The cyst happens when the ducts (tubes) in the pancreas are damaged and fluid
with enzymes cannot drain.

## Symptoms

Symptoms can occur within days to months after an attack of pancreatitis. They
include:

      * Bloating of the abdomen
      * Constant pain or deep ache in the abdomen, which may also be felt in the back
      * Nausea and vomiting  

      * Loss of appetite  

      * Difficulty eating and digesting food

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider mayÂ feel your abdomen for a pseudocyst. It will feel
like a lump in the middle or left upper abdomen.

Tests that may help detect pancreatic pseudocyst include:

      * Abdominal CT scan
      * Abdominal MRI
      * Abdominal ultrasound
      * Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) 

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the size of the pseudocyst and whether it is causing
symptoms. Many pseudocysts go away on their own. Those that remain for more
than 6 weeks and are larger than 5 cm in diameter often need treatment.

Possible treatments include:

      * Drainage through the skin using a needle, most often guided by a CT scan.
      * Endoscopic-assisted drainage using an endoscope. In this, a tube containing a camera and a light is passed down into the stomach)
      * Surgical drainage of the pseudocyst. A connection is made between the cyst and the stomach or small intestine. This may be done using a laparoscope.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is generally good with treatment. It is important to make sure
that it is not a pancreatic cancer that starts in a cyst, which has a worse
outcome.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * A pancreatic abscess can develop if the pseudocyst becomes infected.
      * The pseudocyst can break open (rupture). This can be a serious complication because shock and excess bleeding (hemorrhage) may develop.
      * The pseudocyst may press down on (compress) nearby organs.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Rupture of the pseudocyst is a medical emergency. Go to the emergency room or
call the local emergency number (such as 911) if you develop symptoms of
bleeding or shock, such as:

      * Fainting
      * Fever and chills
      * Rapid heartbeat
      * Severe abdominal pain 

## Prevention

The way to prevent pancreatic pseudocysts is by preventing pancreatitis. If
pancreatitis is caused by gallstones, the provider will perform surgery to
remove the gallbladder (cholecystectomy).

When pancreatitis occurs due to alcohol abuse, you must stop drinking alcohol
to prevent future attacks.

When pancreatitis occurs due to high blood triglycerides, this condition
should be treated.

## Alternative Names

Pancreatitis - pseudocyst

## Images

      * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
      * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
      * ![Pancreatic pseudocyst - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1193t.jpg)Pancreatic pseudocyst - CT scan
      * ![Pancreas](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8883t.jpg)Pancreas

## References

Forsmark CE. Pancreatitis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 144.

Nealon WH. The management of pancreatic pseudocyst. In: Cameron JL, Cameron
AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:516-523.

Tenner SC, Steinberg WM. Acute pancreatitis.Â In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management._ 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 58.

Van Buren G, Fisher WE. Acute and chronic pancreatitis. In: Kellerman RD, Bope
ET, eds. _Conn's Current Therapy 2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:163-170.

## Review Date 10/23/2017

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pancreatic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PancreaticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Pancreatic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

