Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003464.htm    
                                Description: Amylase is an enzyme that helps digest carbohydrates. It is made in the pancreas and the glands that make saliva. When the pancreas is diseased or inflamed, amylase releases into the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Amylase - blood

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003464.htm

# Amylase - blood

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Amylase is an enzyme that helps digest carbohydrates. It is made in the
pancreas and the glands that make saliva. When the pancreas is diseased or
inflamed, amylase releases into the blood.

A test can be done to measure the level of this enzyme in your blood.

Amylase may also be measured with an amylase urine test.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is taken from a vein.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed. However, you should avoid alcohol before the
test. The health care provider may ask you to stop taking drugs that may
affect the test. DO NOT stop taking any medicines without first talking to
your provider.

Drugs that can increase amylase measurements include:

      * Asparaginase
      * Aspirin
      * Birth control pills
      * Cholinergic medicines
      * Ethacrynic acid
      * Methyldopa
      * Opiates (codeine, meperidine, and morphine)
      * Thiazide diuretics

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel slight pain or a sting when the needle is inserted to draw blood.
Afterward, there may be some throbbing.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is most often used to diagnose or monitor acute pancreatitis. It may
also detect some digestive tract problems.

The test may also be done for the following conditions:

      * Chronic pancreatitis
      * Pancreatic pseudocyst

## Normal Results

The normal range is 40 to 140 units per liter (U/L) or 0.38 to 1.42 microkat/L
(Âµkat/L).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some
laboratories use different measurement methods. Talk to your provider about
the meaning of your test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Increased blood amylase level may occur due to:

      * Acute pancreatitis
      * Cancer of the pancreas, ovaries, or lungs
      * Cholecystitis
      * Gallbladder attack caused by disease
      * Gastroenteritis (severe)
      * Infection of the salivary glands (such as mumps) or a blockage
      * Intestinal blockage
      * Macroamylasemia
      * Pancreatic or bile duct blockage
      * Perforated ulcer
      * Tubal pregnancy (may have burst open)

Decreased amylase level may occur due to:

      * Cancer of the pancreas
      * Damage to the pancreas with pancreatic scarring
      * Kidney disease
      * Toxemia of pregnancy

## Risks

Slight risks from having blood drawn may include:

      * Excessive bleeding
      * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
      * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
      * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Pancreatitis - blood amylase

## Images

      * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Crockett SD, Wani S, Gardner TB, Falck-Ytter Y, Barkun AN; American
Gastroenterological Association Institute Clinical Guidelines Committee.
American Gastroenterological Association Institute guideline on initial
management of acute pancreatitis. _Gastroenterology_. 2018;154(4):1096-1101.
PMID: 29409760 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29409760.

Forsmark CE. Pancreatitis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 144.

Meisenberg G, Simmons WH. Digestive enzymes. In: Meisesnberg G, Simmons WH,
eds. _Principles of Medical Biochemistry_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 20.

Tenner S, Steinberg WM. Acute pancreatitis. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt
LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 58.

## Review Date 1/26/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pancreatic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PancreaticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Pancreatic
Diseases _Read more_

![Pancreatitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pancreatitis_thumb.jpg)Pancreatitis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

