Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003159.htm    
                                Description: Itching, redness, and swelling of the skin of the vagina and the surrounding area (vulva) is a common problem in girls before the age of puberty. Vaginal discharge may also be present. The color, smell,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vaginal itching and discharge - child

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003159.htm

# Vaginal itching and discharge - child

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Itching, redness, and swelling of the skin of the vagina and the surrounding
area (vulva) is a common problem in girls before the age of puberty. Vaginal
discharge may also be present. The color, smell, and consistency of the
discharge can vary, depending on the cause of the problem.

## Causes

Common causes of vaginal itching and discharge in young girls include:

      * Chemicals such as perfumes and dyes in detergents, fabric softeners, creams, ointments, and sprays may irritate the vagina or the skin around the vagina.
      * Vaginal yeast infection.
      * Vaginitis. Vaginitis in girls before puberty is common. If a young girl has a sexually transmitted vaginal infection, however, sexual abuse must be considered and addressed.
      * A foreign body, such as toilet paper or a crayon that a young girl may place in the vagina. An infection with a discharge may occur if the foreign object remains in the vagina.
      * Pinworms (a parasite infection mainly affecting children).

## Home Care

To prevent and treat vaginal irritation, your child should:

      * Avoid colored or perfumed toilet tissue and bubble bath.
      * Use plain, unscented soap. 
      * Limit bath time to 15 minutes or less. Ask your child to urinate right after the bath.
      * Use only plain warm water. DO NOT add baking soda, colloidal oats or oat extracts, or anything else to the bathwater. 
      * DO NOT let soap float in the bathwater. If you need to shampoo, do so at the end of the bath.

Teach your child to keep the genital area clean and dry. She should:

      * Pat the outer vagina and vulva dry rather than rubbing it with tissue. Doing so will help prevent small balls of tissue from breaking off.
      * Move toilet tissue from front to back (vagina to anus) after urinating or having a bowel movement.

Your child should:

      * Wear cotton panties. Avoid underwear made from synthetic or manmade materials.
      * Have your child change underwear every day. 
      * Avoid tight pants or shorts.
      * Change out of wet clothing, especially wet bathing suits or exercise clothing, as soon as possible.

DO NOT try to remove any foreign object from a child's vagina. You may push
the object back farther or injure your child by mistake. Take the child to a
health care provider right away for removal.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your child's provider right away if:

      * Your child complains of pelvic or lower abdominal pain or has a fever.
      * You suspect sexual abuse.

Also call if:

      * There are blisters or ulcers on the vagina or vulva.
      * Your child has a burning feeling with urination or other problems urinating.
      * You child has vaginal bleeding, swelling, or discharge.
      * Your child's symptoms get worse, last longer than 1 week, or keep coming back. 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will examine your child and may do a pelvic exam. You will be
asked questions to help diagnose the cause of your vaginal itching. Tests may
be done to find the cause.

Your provider may recommend drugs, such as:

      * Cream or lotion for yeast infections
      * Certain allergy medicines (antihistamines) for relief of itching
      * Hydrocortisone creams or lotions that you can buy at the store (always talk to your provider first)

## Alternative Names

Pruritus vulvae; Itching - vaginal area; Vulvar itching; Yeast infection -
child

## Images

      * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1112t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy
      * ![Causes of vaginal itching](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17139t.jpg)Causes of vaginal itching
      * ![Uterus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19263t.jpg)Uterus

## References

Lara-Torre E, Valea FA. Pediatric and adolescent gynecology: gynecologic
examination, infections, trauma, pelvic mass, precocious puberty. In:Â Lobo
RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 12.

Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM. Vulvovaginitis. In: Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM, eds.
_Nelson's Essentials of Pediatrics_. 7th ed. Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 115.

Sucato GS, Murray PJ. Pediatric and adolescent gynecology. In: Zitelli, BJ,
McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric
Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 19.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Vaginal
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VaginalDiseases_thumb.jpg)Vaginal
Diseases _Read more_

![Vulvar
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VulvarDisorders_thumb.jpg)Vulvar
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

