Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001509.htm    
                                Description: A cyst is a closed pocket or pouch of tissue. It can be filled with air, fluid, pus, or other material. A vaginal cyst occurs on or under the lining of the vagina.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vaginal cysts

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001509.htm

# Vaginal cysts

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A cyst is a closed pocket or pouch of tissue. It can be filled with air,
fluid, pus, or other material. A vaginal cyst occurs on or under the lining of
the vagina.

## Causes

There are several types of vaginal cysts.

      * Vaginal inclusion cysts are the most common. These may form due to injury to the vaginal walls during birth process or after surgery.
      * Gartner duct cysts develop on the side walls of the vagina. Gartner duct is present while a baby is developing in the womb. However, this most often disappears after birth. If parts of the duct remain, they may collect fluid and develop into a vaginal wall cyst later in life.
      * Bartholin cyst or abscess forms when fluid or pus builds up and forms a lump in one of the Bartholin glands. These glands are found on each side of the vaginal opening.
      * Endometriosis may appear as small cysts in the vagina. This is uncommon.
      * Benign tumors of the vagina are uncommon. They are most often composed of cysts.
      * Cystoceles and rectoceles are bulges in the vaginal wall from the underlying bladder or rectum. This happens when the muscles surrounding the vagina become weak, most commonly due to childbirth. These are not really cysts, but can look and feel like cystic masses in the vagina.

## Symptoms

Most vaginal cysts usually do not cause symptoms. In some cases, a soft lump
can be felt in the vaginal wall or protruding from the vagina. Cysts range in
size from the size of a pea to that of an orange.

However, Bartholin cysts can become infected, swollen and painful.

Some women with vaginal cysts may have discomfort during sex or trouble
inserting a tampon.

Women with cystoceles or rectoceles may feel a protruding bulge, pelvic
pressure or have difficulty with urination or defecation.

## Exams and Tests

Physical exam is essential to determine what type of cyst or mass you may
have.

A mass or bulge of the vaginal wall may be seen during a pelvic exam. You may
need a biopsy to rule out vaginal cancer, especially if the mass appears to be
solid.

If the cyst is located under the bladder or urethra, x-rays may be needed to
see if the cyst extends into these organs.

## Treatment

Routine exams to check the size of the cyst and look for any changes may be
the only treatment needed.

Biopsies or minor surgeries to remove the cysts or drain them are typically
simple to perform and resolve the issue.

Bartholin gland cysts often need to be drained. Sometimes, antibiotics are
prescribed to treat them as well.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most of the time, the outcome is good. Cysts often remain small and do not
need treatment. When surgically removed, the cysts most often do not return.

Bartholin cysts can sometimes recur and need ongoing treatment.

## Possible Complications

In most cases, there are no complications from the cysts themselves. A
surgical removal carries a small risk for complication. The risk depends on
where the cyst is located.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if a lump is felt inside the vagina or is
protruding from the vagina. It is important to contact your provider for an
exam for any cyst or mass you notice.

## Alternative Names

Inclusion cyst; Gartner duct cyst

## Images

      * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1112t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy
      * ![Uterus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19263t.jpg)Uterus
      * ![Normal uterine anatomy \(cut section\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8608t.jpg)Normal uterine anatomy (cut section)

## References

Baggish MS. Benign lesions of the vaginal wall. In: Baggish MS, Karram MM,
eds. _Atlas of Pelvic Anatomy and Gynecologic Surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 61.

Dolan MS, Hill C, Valea FA. Benign gynecologic lesions: vulva, vagina, cervix,
uterus, oviduct, ovary, ultrasound imaging of pelvic structures. In: Lobo RA,
Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 18.

Rovner ES. Bladder and female urethral diverticula. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR,
Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 90.

## Review Date 6/30/2019

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Vaginal
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VaginalDiseases_thumb.jpg)Vaginal
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

