Link: https://medlineplus.gov/coldsores.html    
                                Description: Learn about types of herpes simplex. Type 1 causes cold sores, fever blisters or oral herpes. Type 2 affects the genital area. Read about symptoms.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Cold Sores

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/coldsores.html

#  Cold Sores

Also called: Fever blister, Oral herpes

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here

### Learn More

    * Related Issues

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Cold sores are caused by a contagious virus called herpes simplex virus (HSV).
There are two types of HSV. Type 1 usually causes oral herpes, or cold sores.
Type 1 herpes virus infects more than half of the U.S. population by the time
they reach their 20s. Type 2 usually affects the genital area.

Some people have no symptoms from the infection. But others develop painful
and unsightly cold sores. Cold sores usually occur outside the mouth, on or
around the lips. When they are inside the mouth, they are usually on the gums
or the roof of the mouth. They are not the same as canker sores, which are not
contagious.

There is no cure for cold sores. They normally go away on their own in a few
weeks. Antiviral medicines can help them heal faster. They can also help to
prevent cold sores in people who often get them. Other medicines can help with
the pain and discomfort of the sores. These include ointments that numb the
blisters, soften the crusts of the sores, or dry them out. Protecting your
lips from the sun with sunblock lip balm can also help.

## Start Here

    * Cold Sore (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Cold Sores (Academy of General Dentistry)

## Related Issues

    * Can You Get Genital Herpes from a Cold Sore? (Nemours Foundation)

## Images

    * Cold Sores (Orofacial Herpes) (Logical Images)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Herpes Labialis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Treatment of herpes labialis by photodynamic therapy: Study protocol clinical trial...
    * Article: The controversial natural history of oral herpes simplex virus type 1...
    * Article: An extensive perioral rash.
    * Cold Sores -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
    * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * Coping with Cold Sores (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Herpes Simplex Virus (Cold Sores) (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

    * Cold Sores (HSV-1) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Herpes - oral (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Herpetic stomatitis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Mouth sores (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Cold Sores](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColdSores.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Herpes - oral
    * Herpetic stomatitis
    * Mouth sores

## Related Health Topics

    * Herpes Simplex
    * Mouth Disorders

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 18 April 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

