Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000708.htm    
                                Description: The hymen is a thin membrane. It most often covers part of the opening of the vagina. Imperforate hymen is when the hymen covers the whole opening of the vagina.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Imperforate hymen

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000708.htm

# Imperforate hymen

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The hymen is a thin membrane. It most often covers part of the opening of the
vagina. Imperforate hymen is when the hymen covers the whole opening of the
vagina.

Imperforate hymen is the most common type of blockage of the vagina.

Imperforate hymen is something a girl is born with. No one knows why this
happens. There is nothing that the mother did to cause it.

## Diagnosis

Girls can be diagnosed with imperforate hymen at any age. It is most often
diagnosed at birth or later at puberty.

At birth or early childhood, the health care provider may see that there is no
opening in the hymen during a physical exam.

At puberty, girls usually do not have any problems from an imperforate hymen
until they start their period. The imperforate hymen blocks the blood from
flowing out. As the blood backs up the vagina, it causes:

      * Mass or fullness in the lower part of the belly (from the build up of blood that can't come out)
      * Stomach pain
      * Back pain
      * Problems with urinating and bowel movements

The provider will do a pelvic exam. The provider may also do a pelvic
ultrasound and imaging studies of the kidneys. This is done to ensure that the
problem is imperforate hymen rather than another problem. The provider may
recommend that the girl see a specialist to make sure that the diagnosis is
imperforate hymen.

## Treatment

A minor surgery can fix an imperforate hymen. The surgeon makes a small cut or
incision and removes the extra hymen membrane.

      * Girls who are diagnosed with imperforate hymen as babies most often have surgery when they are older and have just started puberty. The surgery is done in early puberty when breast development and pubic hair growth has begun.
      * Girls who are diagnosed when they are older have the same surgery. The surgery allows retained menstrual blood to leave the body. 

Girls recover from this surgery in a few days.

After surgery, the girl may have to insert dilators into the vagina for 15
minutes each day. A dilator looks like a tampon. This keeps the incision from
closing on itself and keeps the vagina open.

## After Treatment

After girls recover from the surgery, they will have normal periods. They can
use tampons, have normal sexual intercourse, and have children.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call the provider if:

      * There are signs of infection after surgery, such as pain, pus, or fever.
      * The hole in the vagina seems to be closing. The dilator will not go in or there is a lot of pain when it is inserted. 

## References

Kaefer M. Management of abnormalities of the genitalia in girls. In: Wein AJ,
Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 149.

Sucato GS, Murray PJ. Pediatric and adolescent gynecology. In: Zitelli, BJ,
McIntire SC, Norwalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical
Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 19.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Vaginal Diseases

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

