Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003706.htm    
                                Description: The growth hormone test measures the amount of growth hormone in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Growth hormone test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003706.htm

# Growth hormone test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The growth hormone test measures the amount of growth hormone in the blood.

The pituitary gland makes growth hormone, which causes a child to grow. This
gland is located at the base of the brain.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your health care provider may give you special instructions about what you can
or cannot eat before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

This hormone may be checked if a person's growth pattern is abnormal or if
another condition is suspected.

      * Too much growth hormone (GH) can cause abnormally increased growth patterns. In adults this is called acromegaly. In children it is called gigantism.
      * Too little growth hormone can cause a slow or flat rate of growth in children. In adults, it can sometimes cause changes in energy, muscle mass, cholesterol levels, and bone strength. 

The GH test may also be used to monitor response to acromegaly treatment.

## Normal Results

The normal range for GH level is typically:

      * For adult males -- 0.4 to 10 nanograms per milliliter (ng/mL), or 18 to 44 picomoles per liter (pmol/L)
      * For adult females -- 1 to 14 ng/mL, or 44 to 616 pmol/L
      * For children -- 10 to 50 ng/mL, or 440 to 2200 pmol/L

GH is released in pulses. The size and duration of the pulses varies with time
of day, age, and gender. This is why random GH measurements are rarely useful.
A higher level may be normal if the blood was drawn during a pulse. A lower
level may be normal if the blood was drawn around the end of a pulse. GH is
most useful when measured as part of a stimulation or suppression test.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different specimens. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A high level of GH may indicate:

      * Too much GH in adults, called acromegaly. (A special test is done to confirm this diagnosis.)
      * Abnormal growth due to excess GH during childhood, called gigantism. (A special test is done to confirm this diagnosis.)
      * GH resistance.
      * Pituitary tumor. 

A low level of GH may indicate:

      * Slow growth noticed in infancy or childhood, caused by low levels of GH. (A special test is done to confirm this diagnosis.)
      * Hypopituitarism (low function of the pituitary gland).

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken.Â Veins and
arteries vary in size from one person to another, and from one side of the
body to the other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be more
difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

      * Excessive bleeding
      * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
      * Multiple punctures to locate veins
      * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
      * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

GH test

## Images

      * ![Growth hormone stimulation test - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/15176t.jpg)Growth hormone stimulation test - series

## References

Ali O. Hyperpituitarism, tall stature, and overgrowth syndromes. In: Kliegman
RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 560.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Growth hormone (somatotropin, GH) and growth
hormoneâreleasing hormone (GHRH) - blood. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds.
_Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2013:599-600.

Cooke DW, Divall SA, Radovick S. Normal and aberrant growth in children. In:
Melmed S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 24.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Growth
Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GrowthDisorders_thumb.jpg)Growth
Disorders _Read more_

![Hormones](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hormones2_thumb.jpg)Hormones _Read
more_

![Enfermedades de la glÃ¡ndula
pituitaria](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PituitaryDisorders_thumb.jpg)Pituitary
Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

