Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001174.htm    
                                Description: Gigantism is abnormal growth due to an excess of growth hormoneÂ (GH) during childhood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gigantism

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001174.htm

# Gigantism

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Gigantism is abnormal growth due to an excess of growth hormoneÂ (GH) during
childhood.

## Causes

Gigantism is very rare. The most common cause of too much GH release is a
noncancerous (benign) tumor of the pituitary gland. Other causes include:

      * Genetic disease that affects the skin color (pigmentation) and causes benign tumors of the skin, heart, and endocrine (hormone) system (Carney complex)
      * Genetic disease that affects the bones and skin pigmentation (McCune-Albright syndrome)
      * Genetic disease in which one or more of the endocrine glands are overactive or form a tumor (multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 or type 4)
      * Genetic disease that forms pituitary tumors
      * Disease in which tumors form on the nerves of the brain and spine (neurofibromatosis) 

If excess GH occurs after normal bone growth has stopped (end of puberty), the
condition is known as acromegaly.

## Symptoms

The child will grow in height, as well as in the muscles and organs. This
excessive growth makes the child extremely large for his or her age.

Other symptoms include:

      * Delayed puberty
      * Double vision or difficulty with side (peripheral) vision
      * Very prominent forehead (frontal bossing) and a prominent jaw
      * Gaps between the teeth
      * Headache
      * Increased sweating
      * Irregular periods (menstruation)
      * Joint pain
      * Large hands and feet with thick fingers and toes
      * Release of breast milk
      * Sleep problems
      * Thickening of the facial features
      * Weakness
      * Voice changes

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about the
child's symptoms.

Laboratory tests that may be ordered include:

      * Cortisol
      * Estradiol (girls)
      * GH suppression test
      * Prolactin
      * Insulin-like growth factor-I
      * Testosterone (boys)
      * Thyroid hormone

Imaging tests, such as CT or MRI scan of the head, also may be ordered to
check for a pituitary tumor.

## Treatment

For pituitary tumors, surgery can cure many cases.

When surgery cannot completely remove the tumor, medicines are used to block
or reduce GH release or prevent GH from reaching target tissues.

Sometimes radiation treatment is used to decrease the size of the tumor after
surgery.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Pituitary surgery is usually successful in limiting GH production.

Early treatment can reverse many of the changes caused by GH excess.

## Possible Complications

Surgery and radiation treatment may lead to low levels of other pituitary
hormones. This can cause any of the following conditions:

      * Adrenal insufficiency (adrenal glands do not produce enough of their hormones)
      * Diabetes insipidus (extreme thirst and excessive urination; in rare cases)
      * Hypogonadism (body's sex glands produce little or no hormones)
      * Hypothyroidism (thyroid gland does not make enough thyroid hormone)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child has signs of excessive growth.

## Prevention

Gigantism cannot be prevented. Early treatment may prevent the disease from
getting worse and help avoid complications.

## Alternative Names

Pituitary giant; Overproduction of growth hormone; Growth hormone - excess
production

## Images

      * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands

## References

Katznelson L, Laws ER Jr, Melmed S, et al; Endocrine Society. Acromegaly: an
endocrine society clinical practice guideline. _J Clin Endocrinol Metab_.
2014;99(11):3933-3951. PMID: 25356808 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25356808.

Melmed S. Acromegaly. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds.
_Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 12.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Growth
Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GrowthDisorders_thumb.jpg)Growth
Disorders _Read more_

![Enfermedades de la glÃ¡ndula
pituitaria](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PituitaryDisorders_thumb.jpg)Pituitary
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

