Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003376.htm    
                                Description: The growth hormone suppression test determines whether growth hormone (GH) production is being suppressed by high blood sugar.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Growth hormone suppression test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003376.htm

# Growth hormone suppression test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The growth hormone suppression test determines whether growth hormone (GH)
production is being suppressed by high blood sugar.

## How the Test is Performed

At least 3 blood samples are taken.

The test is done in the following way:

      * The first blood sample is collected between 6 a.m. and 8 a.m. before you eat or drink anything.
      * You then drink a solution containing glucose (sugar). You may be told to drink slowly to avoid becoming nauseated. But you must drink the solution within 5 minutes to ensure the test result is accurate.
      * The next blood samples are usually collected for 1 to 2 hours after you finish drinking the glucose solution. Sometimes they are taken every 30 or 60 minutes.
      * Each sample is sent to the laboratory right away. The lab measures the glucose and GH levels in each sample. 

## How to Prepare for the Test

DO NOT eat anything and limit physical activity for 10 to 12 hours before the
test.

You may also be told to stop taking medicines that can affect the test
results. These medicines include glucocorticoids such as prednisone,
hydrocortisone, or dexamethasone. Check with your health care provider before
stopping any medicines.

You will be asked to relax for at least 90 minutes before the test. This is
because exercise or increased activity can change GH levels.

If your child is to have this test done, it may be helpful to explain how the
test will feel and even demonstrate on a doll. The more familiar your child is
with what will happen and why, the less anxiety the child will feel.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or slight bruising. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test checks for a high level of GH, a condition that leads to gigantism
in children and acromegaly in adults. It is not used as a routine screening
test. This test is only done if you show signs of increased GH.

## Normal Results

Normal test results show a GH level of less than 1 ng/mL. In children, GH
level may be increased due to reactive hypoglycemia.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

If the GH level is not changed and stays high during the suppression test, the
provider will suspect gigantism or acromegaly. You may need to be retested to
confirm the test results.

## Risks

Veins and arteries vary in size from one person to another and from one side
of the body to the other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be
more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

      * Excessive bleeding
      * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
      * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
      * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

GH suppression test; Glucose loading test; Acromegaly - blood test; Gigantism
- blood test

## Images

      * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Kaiser U, Ho KKY. Pituitary physiology and diagnostic evaluation. In: Melmed
S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 8.

Nakamoto J. Endocrine testing. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et
al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 154.

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Growth
Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GrowthDisorders_thumb.jpg)Growth
Disorders _Read more_

![Enfermedades de la glÃ¡ndula
pituitaria](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PituitaryDisorders_thumb.jpg)Pituitary
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

