Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000349.htm    
                                Description: Empty sella syndrome is a condition in which the pituitary gland shrinks or becomes flattened.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Empty sella syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000349.htm

# Empty sella syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Empty sella syndrome is a condition in which the pituitary gland shrinks or
becomes flattened.

## Causes

The pituitary is a small gland locatedÂ just underneathÂ the brain. It is
attached to the bottom of the brain by the pituitary stalk.Â The pituitaryÂ
sits in a saddle-like compartment in the skull called the sella turcica. In
Latin, it means Turkish seat.

When the pituitary gland shrinks or becomes flattened, it cannot be seen on an
MRI scan. This makes the area of the pituitary gland look like an "empty
sella." But the sella is not actually empty. It is often filled with
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). CSF is fluid that surrounds the brain and spinal
cord. With empty sella syndrome, CSF has leaked into the sella turcica,
putting pressure on the pituitary. This causes the gland to shrink or flatten.

Primary empty sella syndrome occurs when one of the layers (arachnoid)
covering the outside of the brain bulges down into the sella and presses on
the pituitary.

Secondary empty sella syndrome occurs when the sella is empty because the
pituitary gland has been damaged by:

      * A tumor
      * Radiation therapy
      * Surgery 
      * Trauma

Empty sella syndrome may be seen in a condition called pseudotumor cerebri,
which mainly affects young, obese women and causes the CSF to be under higher
pressure.

The pituitary gland makes several hormones that control other glands in the
body, including the:

      * Adrenal glands
      * Ovaries
      * Testicles
      * Thyroid 

A problem with the pituitary gland can lead to problems with any of the above
glands and abnormal hormone levels of these glands.

## Symptoms

Often, there are no symptoms or loss of pituitary function.

If there are symptoms, they may include any of the following:

      * Erection problems
      * Headaches
      * Irregular or absent menstruation
      * Decreased orÂ no desire for sex (low libido)
      * Fatigue, low energy
      * Nipple discharge

## Exams and Tests

Primary empty sella syndrome is most often discovered during an MRI or CT scan
of the head and brain. Pituitary function is usually normal.

The health care provider may orderÂ tests to make sure the pituitary gland is
working normally.

Sometimes, tests for high pressure in the brain will be done, such as:

      * Examination of the retina by an ophthalmologist
      * Lumbar puncture (spinal tap) 

## Treatment

For primary empty sella syndrome:

      * There is no treatment if pituitary function is normal.
      * Medicines may be prescribed to treat any abnormal hormone levels.

For secondary empty sella syndrome, treatment involves replacing the hormones
that are missing.

In some cases, surgery is needed to repair the sella turcica.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Primary empty sella syndrome does not cause health problems, and it does not
affect life expectancy.

## Possible Complications

Complications of primary empty sella syndrome include a slightly higher than
normal level of prolactin. This is a hormone made by the pituitary gland.
Prolactin stimulates breast development and milk production in women.

Complications of secondary empty sella syndrome are related to the cause of
pituitary gland disease or to the effects of too little pituitary hormone
(hypopituitarism).

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if you develop symptoms of abnormal pituitary function,
such as menstrual cycle problems or impotence.

## Alternative Names

Pituitary - empty sella syndrome; Partial empty sella

## Images

      * ![The pituitary gland](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17227t.jpg)Pituitary gland

## References

Kaiser U, Ho KKY. Pituitary physiology and diagnostic evaluation. In: Melmed
S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 8.

Maya M, Pressman BD. Pituitary imaging. In: Melmed S, ed. _The Pituitary_. 4th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 23.

Molitch ME. Anterior pituitary. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 224.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Enfermedades de la glÃ¡ndula
pituitaria](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PituitaryDisorders_thumb.jpg)Pituitary
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

