Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003377.htm    
                                Description: The growth hormone (GH) stimulation test measures the ability of the body to produce GH.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Growth hormone stimulation test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003377.htm

# Growth hormone stimulation test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The growth hormone (GH) stimulation test measures the ability of the body to
produce GH.

## How the Test is Performed

Blood is drawn several times. Blood samples are taken through an intravenous
(IV) line instead of reinserting the needle each time. The test takes between
2 and 5 hours.

The procedure is done the following way:

      * An IV is usually placed in a vein, most often the inside of the elbow or the back of the hand. The site is first cleaned with germ-killing medicine (antiseptic).
      * The first sample is drawn early in the morning.
      * Medicine is given through the vein. This medicine stimulates the pituitary gland to release GH. Several medicines are available. The health care provider will decide which medicine is best.
      * Additional blood samples are drawn over the next few hours.
      * After the last sample is taken, the IV line is removed. Pressure is applied to stop any bleeding.

## How to Prepare for the Test

DO NOT eat for 10 to 12 hours before the test. Eating food can change the test
results.

Some medicines can affect the test results. Ask your provider if you should
stop taking any of your medicines before the test.

If your child will have this test, explain how the test will feel. You may
want to demonstrate on a doll. The more familiar your child is with what will
happen and the purpose of the procedure, the less anxiety they will feel.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging sensation. Afterward, there may be some
throbbing or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is most often done to find out whether a growth hormone deficiency
(GH deficiency) is causing slowed growth.

## Normal Results

Normal results include:

      * Normal peak value, at least 10 ng/mL (10 Âµg/L)
      * Indeterminate, 5 to 10 ng/mL (5 to 10Â Âµg/L)
      * Subnormal, 5 ng/mL (5 Âµg/L)

A normal value rules out hGH deficiency. In some laboratories, the normal
level is 7 ng/mL (7 Âµg/L).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

If this test does not raise GH levels, there is a reduced amount of hGH stored
in the anterior pituitary.

In children, this results in GH deficiency. In adults, it may be linked to
adult GH deficiency.

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

      * Excessive bleeding
      * Multiple punctures to locate veins
      * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
      * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
      * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

Medicines that stimulate the pituitary during the test may cause side effects.
The provider can tell you more about this.

## Alternative Names

Arginine test; Arginine - GHRH test

## Images

      * ![Growth hormone stimulation test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9356t.jpg)Growth hormone stimulation test

## References

Alatzoglou KS, Dattani MT. Growth hormone deficiency in children. In: Jameson
JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and
Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 23.

Guber HA, Farag AF. Evaluation of endocrine function. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 24.

Patterson BC, Felner EI. Hypopituitarism. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum
NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 573.

## Review Date 7/3/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Children's Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Growth
Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GrowthDisorders_thumb.jpg)Growth
Disorders _Read more_

![Enfermedades de la glÃ¡ndula
pituitaria](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PituitaryDisorders_thumb.jpg)Pituitary
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

