Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000343.htm    
                                Description: Hypopituitarism is a condition in which the pituitary gland does not produce normal amounts of some or all of its hormones.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hypopituitarism

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000343.htm

# Hypopituitarism

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hypopituitarism is a condition in which the pituitary gland does not produce
normal amounts of some or all of its hormones.

## Causes

The pituitary gland is a small structure that is located just below the brain.
It is attached by a stalk to the hypothalamus. The hypothalamus is the area of
the brain that controls the pituitary gland's function.

The hormones released by the pituitary gland (and their functions) are:

      * Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) -- stimulates the adrenal gland to release cortisol; cortisol helps to maintain blood pressure and blood sugar
      * Antidiuretic hormone (ADH) -- controls water loss by the kidneys
      * Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) -- controls sexual function and fertility in males and females
      * Growth hormone (GH) -- stimulates growth of tissues and bone
      * Luteinizing hormone (LH) -- controls sexual function and fertility in males and females
      * Oxytocin -- stimulates the uterus to contract during labor and the breasts to release milk
      * Prolactin -- stimulates female breast development and milk production
      * Thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) -- stimulates the thyroid gland to release hormones that affect the body's metabolism

![Pituitary gland](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200093t.gif)Watch
this video about:Pituitary gland

In hypopituitarism, there is a lack of one or more pituitary hormones. Lack of
a hormone leads to loss of function in the gland or organ the hormone
controls. For example, lack of TSH leads to loss of normal function of the
thyroid gland.

Hypopituitarism may be caused by:

      * Brain surgery
      * Brain tumor
      * Head trauma (traumatic brain injury)
      * Infections or inflammation of the brain and the tissues that support the brain
      * Death of an area of tissue in the pituitary gland (pituitary apoplexy)
      * Radiation therapy to the brain
      * Stroke
      * Subarachnoid hemorrhage (from a burst aneurysm)
      * Tumors of the pituitary gland or hypothalamus 

Sometimes, hypopituitarism is due to uncommon immune system or metabolic
diseases, such as:

      * Too much iron in the body (hemochromatosis)
      * Abnormal increase in immune cells called histiocytes (histiocytosis X)
      * Autoimmune condition that causes inflammation of the pituitary (lymphocytic hypophysitis)
      * Inflammation of various tissues and organs (sarcoidosis)
      * Infections of the pituitary, such as primary pituitary tuberculosisÂ 

Hypopituitarism is also a rare complication caused by severe bleeding during
pregnancy. The loss of blood leads to tissue death in the pituitary gland.
This condition is called Sheehan syndrome.

Certain medicines can also suppress pituitary function. The most common drugs
are glucocorticoids (such as prednisone and dexamethasone), which are taken
for inflammatory and immune conditions. Drugs used to treat prostate cancer
can also lead to low pituitary function.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of hypopituitarism include any of the following:

      * Abdominal pain
      * Decreased appetite
      * Lack of sex drive (in men or women)
      * Dizziness or fainting
      * Excessive urination and thirst
      * Failure to release milk (in women)
      * Fatigue, weakness
      * Headache
      * Infertility (in women) or stopping of menstrual periods
      * Loss of armpit or pubic hair
      * Loss of body or facial hair (in men)
      * Low blood pressure
      * Low blood sugar
      * Sensitivity to cold
      * Short height (less than 5 feet or 1.5 meters) if onset is during a growth period
      * Slowed growth and sexual development (in children)
      * Vision problems
      * Weight loss

Symptoms may develop slowly and may vary greatly, depending upon:

      * The number of hormones that are missing and the organs they affect
      * The severity of the disorder 

Other symptoms that may occur with this disease:

      * Face swelling
      * Hair loss
      * Hoarseness or changing voice
      * Joint stiffness
      * Weight gain

## Exams and Tests

To diagnose hypopituitarism, there must be low hormone levels due to a problem
with the pituitary gland. The diagnosis must also rule out diseases of the
organ that is affected by this hormone.

Tests may include:

      * Brain CT scan
      * Pituitary MRI
      * ACTH
      * Cortisol
      * Estradiol (estrogen)
      * Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH)
      * Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1)
      * Luteinizing hormone (LH)
      * Osmolality tests for blood and urine
      * Testosterone level
      * Thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH)
      * Thyroid hormone (T4)
      * Biopsy of the pituitary 

Level of a pituitary hormone may be high in the bloodstream if you have a
pituitary tumor that is producing too much of that hormone. The tumor may
crush other cells of the pituitary, leading to low levels of other hormones.

## Treatment

If hypopituitarism is caused by a tumor, you may need surgery to remove the
tumor. Radiation therapy may also be needed.

You will need lifelong hormone medicines to replace hormones that are no
longer made by organs under the control of the pituitary gland. These may
include:

      * Corticosteroids (cortisol)
      * Growth hormone
      * Sex hormones (testosterone for men and estrogen for women)
      * Thyroid hormone
      * Desmopressin

Drugs are also available to treat related infertility in men and women.

If you take glucocorticoid medicines for pituitary ACTH deficiency, be sure
you know when to take a stress dose of your medicine. Discuss this with your
health care provider.

Always carry medical ID (card, bracelet, or necklace) that says you have
adrenal insufficiency. The ID should also say the type of medicine and dosage
you need in case of an emergency caused by adrenal insufficiency.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Hypopituitarism is usually permanent. It requires lifelong treatment with one
or more medicines. But you can expect a normal life span.

In children, hypopituitarism may improve if the tumor is removed during
surgery.

## Possible Complications

Side effects of medicines to treat hypopituitarism can develop. However, do
not stop any medicine on your own without talking with your provider first.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of hypopituitarism.

## Prevention

In most cases, the disorder is not preventable. Awareness of risk, such as
from taking certain medicines,Â may allow early diagnosis and treatment.

## Alternative Names

Pituitary insufficiency; Panhypopituitarism

## Images

      * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
      * ![The pituitary gland](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17227t.jpg)Pituitary gland
      * ![Gonadotropins](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17228t.jpg)Gonadotropins
      * ![Pituitary and TSH](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9971t.jpg)Pituitary and TSH

## References

Burt MG, Ho KKY. Hypopituitarism and growth hormone deficiency. In: Jameson
JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and
Pediatric._ 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 11.

Clemmons DR, Nieman LK. Approach to the patient with endocrine disease. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine._ 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 221.

Fleseriu M, Hashim IA, Karavitaki N, et al. Hormonal replacement in
hypopituitarism in adults: an Endocrine Society clinical practice guideline.
_J Clin Endocrinol Metab._ 2016;101(11):3888-3921. PMID: 27736313
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27736313.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Enfermedades de la glÃ¡ndula
pituitaria](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PituitaryDisorders_thumb.jpg)Pituitary
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

