Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003710.htm    
                                Description: The follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) blood test measures the level of FSH in blood. FSH is a hormone released by the pituitary gland, located on the underside of the brain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003710.htm

# Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) blood test measures the level of FSH in
blood. FSH is a hormone released by the pituitary gland, located on the
underside of the brain.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

If you are a woman of childbearing age, your health care provider may want you
to have the test done on certain days of your menstrual cycle.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

In women, FSH helps manageÂ the menstrual cycle and stimulates the ovaries to
produce eggs. The test is used to help diagnose or evaluate:

      * Menopause
      * Women who have polycystic ovary syndrome, ovarian cysts
      * Abnormal vaginal or menstrual bleeding
      * Problems becoming pregnant, or infertility

In men, FSH stimulates production of sperm. The test is used to help diagnose
or evaluate:

      * Problems becoming pregnant, or infertility
      * Men who do not have testicles or whose testicles are underdeveloped

In children, FSH is involved with the development of sexual features. The test
is ordered for children:

      * Who develop sexual features at a very young age
      * Who are delayed in starting puberty

## Normal Results

Normal FSH levels will differ, depending on a person's age and sex.

Male:

      * Before puberty - 0 to 5.0 mIU/mL (0 to 5.0 IU/L)
      * During puberty - 0.3 to 10.0 mIU/mL (0.3 to 10.0 IU/L)
      * Adult - 1.5 to 12.4 mIU/mL (1.5 to 12.4 IU/L) 

Female:

      * Before puberty - 0 to 4.0 mIU/mL (0 to 4.0 IU/L)
      * During puberty - 0.3 to 10.0 mIU/mL (0.3 to 10.0 IU/L)
      * Women who are still menstruating - 4.7 to 21.5 mIU/mL (4.5 to 21.5 IU/L)
      * After menopause - 25.8 to 134.8 mIU/mL (25.8 to 134.8 IU/L) 

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your doctor
about the meaning of your specific test result.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

High FSH levels in women may be present:

      * During or after menopause, including premature menopause
      * When receiving hormone therapy
      * Due to certain types of tumor in the pituitary gland
      * Due to Turner syndrome

Low FSH levels in women may be present due to:

      * Being very underweight or having had recent rapid weight loss
      * Not producing eggs (not ovulating)
      * Parts of the brain (the pituitary gland or hypothalamus) not producing normal amounts of some or all of its hormones 
      * Pregnancy

High FSH levels in men may mean the testicles are not functioning correctly
due to:

      * Advancing age (male menopause)
      * Damage to testicles caused by alcohol abuse, chemotherapy, or radiation
      * Problems with genes, such as Klinefelter syndrome
      * Treatment with hormones
      * Certain tumors in the pituitary gland

Low FSH levels in men may mean parts of the brain (the pituitary gland or
hypothalamus) do not produce normal amounts of some or all of its hormones.

High FSH levels in boys or girls may mean that puberty is about to start.

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

      * Excessive bleeding
      * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
      * Multiple punctures to locate veins
      * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
      * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Follicle stimulating hormone; Menopause - FSH; Vaginal bleeding - FSH

## References

Garibaldi LR, Chemaitilly W. Disorders of pubertal development. In: Kliegman
RM, St Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook
of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 578.

Jeelani R, Bluth MH. Reproductive function and pregnancy. In: McPherson RA,
Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory
Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 25.

Lobo RA. Infertility: etiology, diagnostic evaluation, management, prognosis.
In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive
Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 42.

## Review Date 6/30/2019

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ovarian Cysts](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OvarianCyst2_thumb.jpg)Ovarian
Cysts _Read more_

![Enfermedades de la glÃ¡ndula
pituitaria](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PituitaryDisorders_thumb.jpg)Pituitary
Disorders _Read more_

![Premature Ovarian
Failure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PrematureOvarianFailure_thumb.jpg)Primary
Ovarian Insufficiency _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

