Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002861.htm    
                                Description: Heroin is an illegal drug that is very addictive. It is in the class of drugs known as opioids.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heroin overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002861.htm

# Heroin overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Heroin is an illegal drug that is very addictive. It is in the class of drugs
known as opioids.

This article discusses heroin overdose. An overdose occurs when someone takes
too much of a substance, usually a drug. This can happen by accident or on
purpose. A heroin overdose may cause serious, harmful symptoms, or even death.

 **About heroin overdose:**

Heroin overdoses have been rising sharply in the United States over the last
several years. In 2015, over 13,000 people died of heroin overdoses in the
United States. Heroin is sold illegally, so there is no control over the
quality or strength of the drug. Also, it is sometimes mixed with other
poisonous substances.

Most people who overdose are already addicted, but some people overdose the
very first time they try it. Many people who use heroin also abuse
prescription pain medicines and other drugs. They may also abuse alcohol.
These combinations of substances can be very dangerous. Heroin use in the
United States has been growing since 2007.

There has also been a change in demographics of heroin use. It is now believed
that addiction to prescription opioid painkillers is the gateway to heroin use
for many people. This is because the street price of heroin is often the
cheaper than that of prescription opioids.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual overdose. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call your
local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Heroin is poisonous. Sometimes, the substances heroin is mixed with are also
poisonous.

## Where Found

Heroin is made from morphine. Morphine is a strong drug that is found in the
seedpods of opium poppy plants. These plants are grown around the world. Legal
pain medicines that contain morphine are called opioids. Opioid is a term
derived from _opium_ , which was the Greek word for the juice of the poppy
plant. There is no legal medical use for heroin.

Street names for heroin include "junk", "smack", dope, brown sugar, white
horse, China white, and "skag".

## Symptoms

People use heroin to get high. But if they overdose on it, they get extremely
sleepy or may become unconsciousness and stop breathing.

Below are symptoms of a heroin overdose in different parts of the body.

AIRWAYS AND LUNGS

      * No breathing
      * Shallow breathing
      * Slow and difficult breathing

EYES, EARS, NOSE AND THROAT

      * Dry mouth
      * Extremely small pupils, sometimes as small as the head of a pin (pinpoint pupils)
      * Discolored tongue 

HEART AND BLOOD

      * Low blood pressure
      * Weak pulse 

SKIN

      * Bluish-colored nails and lips

STOMACH AND INNTESTINES

      * Constipation
      * Spasms of the stomach and intestines 

NERVOUS SYSTEM

      * Coma (lack of responsiveness)Â 
      * Delirium (confusion)
      * Disorientation
      * Drowsiness
      * Uncontrolled muscle movements

## Home Care

Seek medical help right away. Do NOT make the person throw up unless poison
control or a health care provider tells you to do so.

In 2014, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the use of a
medicine called naloxone (brand name Narcan) to reverse the effects of a
heroin overdose. This type of medicine is called an antidote. Naloxone is
injected under the skin or into a muscle, using an automatic injector. It can
be used by emergency medical responders, police, family members, caregivers,
and others. It can save lives until medical care is available.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

      * The person's age, weight, and condition
      * How much heroin they took, if known
      * When they took it

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national,
toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United
States.Â This national hotline number will let you talk to experts in
poisoning. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms will be
treated. The person may receive:

      * Blood and urine tests
      * Breathing support, including oxygen tube through the mouth into the throat, and breathing machine
      * Chest x-ray
      * CT scan (advanced imaging) of the brain if head injury is suspected
      * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
      * Intravenous fluids (IV, through a vein)
      * Medicines to treat symptoms, such as naloxone (see "Home Care" section above), to counteract the effects of the heroin
      * Multiple doses or continuous IV administration of naxolone. This may be needed because naxolone's effects is short-lived and the depressive effects of the heroin are long-lasting. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If an antidote can be given, recovery from an acute overdose occurs within 24
to 48 hours. Heroin is often mixed with substances called adulterants. These
can cause other symptoms and organ damage. A hospital stay may be necessary.

If the person's breathing has been affected for a long time, they may breathe
fluids into their lungs. This can lead to pneumonia and other lung
complications.

Individuals who become unconscious for longer periods of time and lie on hard
surfaces may develop crush injuries to the skin and underlying tissue. This
may lead to skin ulcers, infection, and deep scarring.

Injecting any drug through a needle can cause serious infections. These
include abscesses of the brain, lungs, and kidneys, and heart valve infection.

Because heroin is commonly injected into a vein, a heroin user may develop
problems related to sharing needles with other users. Sharing needles can lead
to hepatitis, HIV infection, and AIDS.

## Alternative Names

Acetomorphine overdose; Diacetylmorphine overdose; Opiate overdose; Opioid
overdose

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Injury prevention &
control: opioid overdose. www.cdc.gov/drugoverdose/opioids/heroin.html.
Updated December 19, 2018. Accessed July 9, 2019.

Levine DP, Brown P. Infections in injection drug users. In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 312.

National Institute on Drug Abuse website. Heroin.
www.drugabuse.gov/publications/drugfacts/heroin. Updated June 2019. Accessed
July 9, 2019.

National Institute on Drug Abuse website. Overdose death rates.
www.drugabuse.gov/related-topics/trends-statistics/overdose-death-rates.
Updated January 2019. Accessed July 9, 2019.

Nikolaides JK, Thompson TM. Opioids. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 156.

## Review Date 7/2/2019

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Heroin](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Heroin_thumb.jpg)Heroin _Read more_

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OpioidOverdose_thumb.jpg)Opioid Overdose
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

