Link: https://medlineplus.gov/cytomegalovirusinfections.html    
                                Description: Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is a virus found worldwide. Most people with CMV don&#39;t need treatment. Learn about who is at risk and how to prevent infection.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Cytomegalovirus Infections

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/cytomegalovirusinfections.html

#  Cytomegalovirus Infections

Also called: CMV

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests

### Learn More

    * Related Issues

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Women
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is a virus found around the world. It is related to the
viruses that cause chickenpox and infectious mononucleosis (mono). Between 50
percent and 80 percent of adults in the United States have had a CMV infection
by age 40. Once CMV is in a person's body, it stays there for life.

CMV is spread through close contact with body fluids. Most people with CMV
don't get sick and don't know that they've been infected. But infection with
the virus can be serious in babies and people with weak immune systems. If a
woman gets CMV when she is pregnant, she can pass it on to her baby. Usually
the babies do not have health problems. But some babies can develop lifelong
disabilities.

A blood test can tell whether a person has ever been infected with CMV. Most
people with CMV don't need treatment. If you have a weakened immune system,
your doctor may prescribe antiviral medicine. Good hygiene, including proper
hand washing, may help prevent infections.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Start Here

    * About CMV (Cytomegalovirus) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Cytomegalovirus (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * CMV (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)

## Related Issues

    * Neurological Consequences of Cytomegalovirus Infection ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Cytomegalovirus Infections ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Are viral-infections associated with MÃ©niÃ¨re's Disease? A systematic review and meta-analysis...
    * Article: The immunity features and defects against primary cytomegalovirus infection post-splenectomy indicate...
    * Article: British Society of Gastroenterology consensus guidelines on the management of inflammatory...
    * Cytomegalovirus Infections -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
    * March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation Also in Spanish
    * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Children

    * CMV Facts for Pregnant Women and Parents (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Cytomegalovirus (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Women

    * Cytomegalovirus (CMV) and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Acute cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * CMV - gastroenteritis/colitis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * CMV - pneumonia (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * CMV serology test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Cytomegalovirus retinitis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Cytomegalovirus
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CytomegalovirusInfections.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Acute cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection
    * CMV - gastroenteritis/colitis
    * CMV - pneumonia
    * CMV serology test
    * Congenital cytomegalovirus
    * Cytomegalovirus retinitis

## Related Health Topics

    * Viral Infections

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Cytomegalovirus Infections is the
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 23 September 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

