Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002633.htm    
                                Description: Hydromorphone is a prescription medicine used to relieve severe pain. Hydromorphone overdose occurs when someone takes more than the normal or recommended amount of this medicine. This can be by accident    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hydromorphone overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002633.htm

# Hydromorphone overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hydromorphone is a prescription medicine used to relieve severe pain.
Hydromorphone overdose occurs when someone takes more than the normal or
recommended amount of this medicine. This can be by accident or on purpose.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual overdose. If you or someone you are with has an overdose, call your
local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.Â

## Poisonous Ingredient

Hydromorphone is a type of morphine. Hydromorphone is an opioid narcotic,
which means it is an extremely powerful drug that can cause very deep sleep.

PeopleÂ who take hydromorphone for pain should not drink alcohol. Combining
alcohol with this drug increases the chance for dangerous side effects and
overdose symptoms.

## Where Found

Medicines with these names contain hydromorphone:

      * Dilaudid
      * Hydrostat 
      * Exalgo

Other medicines may also contain hydromorphone.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of a hydromorphone overdose include:

      * Bluish-colored fingernails and lips
      * Breathing problems, including slow and labored breathing, shallow breathing, or no breathing
      * Cold, clammy skin
      * Coma
      * Confusion
      * Constipation
      * Dizziness
      * Drowsiness
      * Fatigue
      * Flushing of the skin
      * Itching
      * Lightheadedness
      * Loss of consciousness
      * Low blood pressure
      * Muscle twitches
      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Pinpoint pupils
      * Spasms of the stomach and intestines
      * Weakness
      * Weak pulse 

**Warning:** A severe overdose of hydromorphone can cause death.

## Home Care

This can be a serious overdose. Seek medical help right away.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

      * Person's age, weight, and condition
      * Name of the product (ingredients and strengths, if known)
      * Time it was swallowed
      * Amount swallowed
      * If the medicine was prescribed for the person 

DO NOT delay calling for help if you don't have this information.

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This national hotline will let you talk to experts in
poisoning. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container to the hospital with you, if possible.

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure.

Tests that may be done include:

      * Blood and urine tests
      * Chest x-ray
      * CT scan (computerized tomography or advanced imaging)
      * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)

Treatment may include:

      * Fluids through a vein (by IV)
      * Medicine to reverse the effect of the hydromorphone and treat symptoms
      * Activated charcoal
      * Laxative
      * Breathing support, including a tube through the mouth into the lungs and connected to a breathing machine (ventilator)

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People who quickly receive medicine (called an antidote) to reverse the effect
of hydromorphone can recover within 1 to 4 hours. They may need to stay in the
hospital for more doses of the antidote.

Complications such as pneumonia, muscle damage from lying on a hard surface
for a long period of time, or brain damage from lack of oxygen may result in
permanent disability. However, unless there are complications, long-term
effects and death are rare.

## References

Aronson JK. Opioid receptor agonists. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side
Effects of Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:348-380.

Nikolaides JK, Thompson TM. Opioids. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 156.

## Review Date 9/23/2017

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Opioid Abuse and
Addiction](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OpioidAbuseandAddiction_thumb.jpg)Opioid
Misuse and Addiction _Read more_

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OpioidOverdose_thumb.jpg)Opioid Overdose
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

