Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002562.htm    
                                Description: Acetaminophen (Tylenol) and codeine is a prescription pain medicine. It is an opioid pain reliever used only for pain that is severe and is not helped by other types of painkillers.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Acetaminophen and codeine overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002562.htm

# Acetaminophen and codeine overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Acetaminophen (Tylenol) and codeine is a prescription pain medicine. It is an
opioid pain reliever used only for pain that is severe and is not helped by
other types of painkillers.

Acetaminophen and codeine overdose occurs when someone takes more than the
normal or recommended amount of this medicine, either by accident or on
purpose.

This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of
an actual overdose. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an actual overdose. If
you or someone you are with overdoses, call your local emergency number (such
as 911), or your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Acetaminophen combined with codeine

## Where Found

Acetaminophen with codeine is commonly sold under the name Tylenol #3.

## Symptoms

Below are symptoms of an overdose of acetaminophen combined with codeine in
different parts of the body.

AIRWAYS AND LUNGS

      * Shallow breathing
      * Slow and labored breathing
      * Stopped breathing

EYES

      * Very small pupils

HEART AND BLOOD VESSELS

      * Low blood pressure

NERVOUS SYSTEM

      * Coma (lack of responsiveness)
      * Convulsions
      * Drowsiness
      * Stupor (lack of alertness)

SKIN

      * Bluish skin (fingernails and lips)
      * Cold, clammy skin
      * Heavy sweating

STOMACH AND GASTROINTESTINAL SYSTEM

      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Spasms of the stomach and intestines
      * Liver failure

URINARY SYSTEM

      * Kidney failure

## Home Care

Seek medical help right away. This type of overdose can cause death. Do NOT
make the person throw up unless poison control or a health care provider tells
you to.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

      * Person's age, weight, and condition
      * Name of the medicine and the strength of the medicine (if known)
      * Time it was swallowed
      * Amount swallowed
      * If the medicine was prescribed for the person

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
This national hotline number will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They
will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms will be
treated. The person may be admitted to the hospital and may receive:

      * Activated charcoal
      * Blood and urine tests
      * Breathing support, including oxygen, and a tube through the mouth into the lungs and breathing machine
      * Chest x-ray
      * CT scan (advanced imaging) of the brain
      * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
      * Intravenous fluids (through a vein)
      * A laxative
      * Medicine to reverse the effects of the poison and treat symptoms 

If there is a high level of acetaminophen in the blood, the person will be
given N-acetyl cysteine (NAC) as soon as possible.

This drug is called an antidote. It counteracts the effects of the
acetaminophen. Without it, deadly liver failure may occur.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does, depends on the amount of medicine swallowed and how
quickly the treatment was received. The faster a person gets medical help, the
better the chance for recovery. If breathing has been depressed for a long
period before treatment, brain injury may occur.

If an antidote can be given, recovery from an acute overdose often occurs
within 24 to 48 hours. Recovery takes longer, if the liver is affected, and
the person may not fully recover.

## Alternative Names

Tylenol #3 overdose; Phenaphen with codeine overdose; Tylenol with codeine
overdose

## References

Aronson JK. Opioid receptor agonists. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side
Effects of Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:348-380.

Hatten BW. Aspirin and nonsteroidal agents. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 144.

Hendrickson RG, McKeown NJ. Acetaminophen. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 143.

Nikolaides JK, Thompson TM. Opioids. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 156.

## Review Date 6/23/2019

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Opioid Abuse and
Addiction](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OpioidAbuseandAddiction_thumb.jpg)Opioid
Misuse and Addiction _Read more_

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OpioidOverdose_thumb.jpg)Opioid Overdose
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

