Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002502.htm    
                                Description: Morphine is a very strong painkiller. It is one of a number of chemicals called opioids or opiates, which were originally derived from the poppy plant and used for pain relief or their calming effects.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Morphine overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002502.htm

# Morphine overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Morphine is a very strong painkiller. It is one of a number of chemicals
called opioids or opiates, which were originally derived from the poppy plant
and used for pain relief or their calming effects. Morphine overdose occurs
when a person intentionally or accidentally takes too much of the medicine.

This article is for information only. Do NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Morphine sulfate

## Where Found

Brand name medicines of morphine include:

      * Arymo ER
      * Astramorph
      * Depodur
      * Duramorphy
      * Infumorph
      * Kadian
      * MS Contin
      * MorphaBond
      * Roxanol

Note: This list may not be all-inclusive.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Bluish fingernails and lips
      * Coma
      * Constipation
      * Difficulty breathing, shallow breathing, slow and labored breathing, no breathing
      * Drowsiness
      * Pinpoint pupils
      * Muscle damage from being immobile while in a coma
      * Nausea, vomiting
      * Possible seizures
      * Spasms of the stomach or intestinal tract 

## Home Care

Seek immediate medical help. DO NOT make a person throw up unless told to do
so by Poison Control or a health care professional. Perform mouth-to-mouth
breathing if the person stops breathing.

## Before Calling Emergency

If possible, determine the following information:

      * Person's age, weight, and condition (for example, is the person awake or alert?)
      * Name of the product (ingredients and strengths, if known)
      * Time it was swallowed
      * Amount swallowed 

However, DO NOT delay calling for help if this information is not immediately
available.

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This hotline will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They
will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

Take the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure.

Symptoms will be treated as appropriate. The person may receive:

      * Activated charcoal
      * Airway support, including oxygen, breathing tube through the mouth (intubation), and breathing machine (ventilator)
      * Blood and urine tests
      * Chest x-ray
      * EKG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
      * Fluids through a vein (IV)
      * Laxative
      * Medicines to treat symptoms, including naloxone, an antidote to reverse the effect of the poison; many doses may be needed

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well the person does depends on the severity of the overdose and how
quickly treatment is received. If the proper narcotic antagonist (drug to
counteract the effects of narcotics) can be given, recovery from an acute
overdose occurs within 24 to 48 hours. However, if there has been prolonged
coma and shock (damage to multiple internal organs), a more serious outcome is
possible.

## References

Aronson JK. Morphine. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of Drugs_.
16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:1111-1127.

Nikolaides JK, Thompson TM. Opioids. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 156.

## Review Date 12/21/2018

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Opioid Abuse and
Addiction](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OpioidAbuseandAddiction_thumb.jpg)Opioid
Misuse and Addiction _Read more_

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OpioidOverdose_thumb.jpg)Opioid Overdose
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

