Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007285.htm    
                                Description: Hydrocodone and oxycodone are opioids, drugs that are mostly used to treat extreme pain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hydrocodone/oxycodone overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007285.htm

# Hydrocodone/oxycodone overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hydrocodone and oxycodone are opioids, drugs that are mostly used to treat
extreme pain.

Hydrocodone and oxycodone overdose occurs when someone intentionally or
accidentally takes too much medicine containing these ingredients. A person
may accidentally take too much of the medicine because they are not getting
pain relief from their normal doses. There are several reasons why a person
may intentionally take too much of this medicine. It may be done to try to
hurt oneself or to get high or intoxicated.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual overdose. If you or someone you are with overdoses, call your local
emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be reached
directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Hydrocodone and oxycodone belong to a class of narcotic medicines called
opiates. These medicines are man-made versions of the natural compounds found
in opium.

## Where Found

Hydrocodone and oxycodone are most often found in prescription painkillers.
The most common painkillers that include these two ingredients are:

      * Norco
      * OxyContin
      * Percocet
      * Percodan
      * Vicodin
      * Vicodin ES

These medicines may also be combined with the non-narcotic medicine,
acetaminophen (Tylenol).

## Symptoms

When you take the correct or prescribed dose of these medicines, side effects
may occur. In addition to relieving pain, you may be drowsy, confused and in a
daze, constipated, and possibly nauseated.

When you take too much of these medicines, symptoms become much more serious.
Symptoms may develop in many body systems:

EYES, EARS, NOSE, AND THROAT:

      * Pinpoint pupils 

GASTROINTESTINAL SYSTEM:

      * Constipation
      * Nausea
      * Spasms (pain) of the stomach or intestinal tract
      * Vomiting 

HEART AND BLOOD VESSELS:

      * Low blood pressure
      * Weak pulse 

NERVOUS SYSTEM:

      * Coma (unresponsiveness)
      * Drowsiness
      * Possible seizures 

RESPIRATORY SYSTEM:

      * Difficulty breathing
      * Slow breathing that requires more effort
      * Shallow breathing
      * No breathing 

SKIN:

      * Bluish-colored fingernails and lips 

OTHER SYMPTOMS:

      * Muscle damage from being immobile while unresponsive

## Home Care

In most states, Naloxone, the antidote for opiate overdose, is available from
the pharmacy without a prescription.

Naloxone is available as an intranasal spray, as well as an intramuscular
injection and other FDA-approved product forms.

## Before Calling Emergency

The following information is helpful for emergency assistance:

      * The person's age, weight, and condition
      * Name of product (as well as the ingredients and strength, if known)
      * The time it was swallowed
      * The amount swallowed
      * If the medicine was prescribed for the person 

However, DO NOT delay calling for help if this information is not immediately
available.

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
This national hotline will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They will
give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms
will be treated as appropriate. The health care team will closely monitor the
person's breathing. The person may receive:

      * Activated charcoal
      * Airway support, including oxygen, breathing tube through the mouth (intubation), and breathing machine (ventilator)
      * Blood and urine tests
      * Chest x-ray
      * CT (computed tomography, or advanced imaging) scan
      * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
      * Fluids through a vein (intravenous or IV)
      * Laxative
      * Medicines to treat symptoms, including naloxone, an antidote to reverse the effect of the poison, many doses may be needed 

Additional therapies may be needed if the person took hydrocodone and
oxycodone with other drugs, such as Tylenol or aspirin.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

A large overdose can cause a person to stop breathing and die if not treated
right away. The person may need to be admitted to the hospital to continue
treatment. Depending on the drug or drugs taken, multiple organs may be
affected. This may affect the person's outcome and chances of survival.

If you receive medical attention before serious problems with your breathing
occur, you should have few long-term consequences. You will probably be back
to normal in a day.

However, this overdose can be deadly or can result in permanent brain damage
if treatment is delayed and a large amount of oxycodone and hydrocodone is
taken.

## Alternative Names

Overdose - hydrocodone; Overdose - oxycodone; Vicodin overdose; Percocet
overdose; Percodan overdose; MS Contin overdose; OxyContin overdose

## References

Langman LJ, Bechtel LK, Meier BM, Holstege C. Clinical toxicology. In: Rifai
N, ed. _Tietz Textbook of Clinical Chemistry and Molecular Diagnostics_. 6th
ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2018:chap 41.

Little M. Toxicology emergencies. In: Cameron P, Jelinek G, Kelly A-M, Brown
A, Little M, eds. _Textbook of Adult Emergency Medicine_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 29.

Nikolaides JK, Thompson TM. Opiods. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 156.

Pincus MR, Bluth MH, Abraham NZ. Toxicology and therapeutic drug monitoring.
In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management
by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 23.

## Review Date 1/12/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Opioid Abuse and
Addiction](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OpioidAbuseandAddiction_thumb.jpg)Opioid
Misuse and Addiction _Read more_

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OpioidOverdose_thumb.jpg)Opioid Overdose
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

