Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002670.htm    
                                Description: Hydrocodone is a painkiller in the opioid family (related to morphine). Acetaminophen is an over-the-counterÂ medicine used to treat pain and inflammation. They may be combined in one prescription medicine    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hydrocodone and acetaminophen overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002670.htm

# Hydrocodone and acetaminophen overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hydrocodone is a painkiller in the opioid family (related to morphine).
Acetaminophen is an over-the-counterÂ medicine used to treat pain and
inflammation. They may be combined in one prescription medicine to treat pain.
An overdose occurs when someone takes more than the normal or recommended
amount of this medicine. This can be by accident or on purpose.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual overdose. If you or someone you are with overdoses, call your local
emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be reached
directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Both acetaminophen and hydrocodone can be harmful in large amounts.

## Where Found

Acetaminophen with hydrocodone is the main ingredient in many prescription
painkillers, including:

      * Anexsia
      * Anolor DH
      * Norco
      * Vicodin

Medicines with other names may also contain hydrocodone and acetaminophen.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of a hydrocodone and acetaminophen overdose include:

      * Bluish-colored fingernails and lips
      * Breathing problems, including slow and labored breathing, shallow breathing, or no breathing
      * Cold, clammy skin
      * Coma
      * Confusion
      * Dizziness
      * Drowsiness
      * Fatigue
      * Lightheadedness
      * Liver failure (from acetaminophen overdose), causing yellow skin and eyes (jaundice)
      * Loss of consciousness
      * Low blood pressure
      * Muscle twitches
      * Nausea and vomiting  

      * Tiny pupils
      * Seizures
      * Spasms of the stomach and intestines
      * Weakness
      * Weak pulse 

## Home Care

Seek medical help right away. DO NOT make the person throw up unless poison
control or a health care provider tells you to.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

      * Person's age, weight, and condition
      * Name of the product (ingredients and strength, if known)
      * Time it was swallowed
      * Amount swallowed
      * If the medicine was prescribed for the person

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This national hotline number will let you talk to experts in
poisoning. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container to the hospital with you, if possible.

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure.

Tests that may done include:

      * Blood and urine tests
      * Chest x-ray
      * ECG (electrocardiogram or heart tracing)

Treatment may include:

      * Fluids through a vein (by IV)
      * Activated charcoal
      * Laxative
      * Medicine to lower acetaminophen level in the blood
      * Medicine to reverse the effect of the hydrocodone
      * Tube through the mouth into the stomach to wash out the stomach (gastric lavage), if unable to swallow medications
      * Breathing support, including tube through the mouth and breathing machine (ventilator)

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well someone does depends on how much hydrocodone and acetaminophen they
swallowed and how quickly they receive treatment. The faster medical help is
given, the better the chance for recovery.

A hospital stay may be needed for more doses of the medicine that reverses the
effects of the drug. Complications may cause permanent disability. These
possible complications are pneumonia, muscle damage from lying on a hard
surface for a prolonged period of time, brain damage from lack of oxygen, and
liver damage or liver failure. If there are no complications, long-term
effects and death are rare.

If you receive medical attention before serious problems with your breathing
occur, you should have few long-term consequences, and will probably be back
to normal within several days.

A person may survive the hydrocodone overdose and still have serious injury
from the acetaminophen portion of the drug, including liver failure, which
might require a liver transplant.

## Alternative Names

Lorcet overdose; Lortab overdose; Vicodin overdose

## References

Aronson JK. Opioid receptor agonists. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side
Effects of Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:348-380.

Aronson JK. Paracetamol (acetaminophen) and combinations. In: Aronson JK, ed.
_Meyler's Side Effects of Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier;
2016:474-493.

Bardsley CH. Opioids. In: Marx JA, Hockberger RS, Walls RM, eds. _Rosen's
Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 162.

Hendrickson RG, McKeown NJ. Acetaminophen. In: Marx JA, Hockberger RS, Walls
RM, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 148.

## Review Date 1/17/2018

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Opioid Abuse and
Addiction](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OpioidAbuseandAddiction_thumb.jpg)Opioid
Misuse and Addiction _Read more_

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OpioidOverdose_thumb.jpg)Opioid Overdose
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

