Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002679.htm    
                                Description: Methadone is a very strong painkiller. It is also used to treat heroin addiction. Methadone overdose occurs when someone accidentally or intentionally takes more than the normal or recommended amount of    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Methadone overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002679.htm

# Methadone overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Methadone is a very strong painkiller. It is also used to treat heroin
addiction. Methadone overdose occurs when someone accidentally or
intentionally takes more than the normal or recommended amount of this
medicine. This can be by accident or on purpose.

Methadone overdose can also occur if a person takes methadone with certain
painkillers. These painkillers include oxycontin, hydrocodone (Vicodin), or
morphine.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual overdose. If you or someone you are with has an overdose 01_007287,
call your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center
can be reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.Â

## Poisonous Ingredient

Methadone can be poisonous in large amounts.

## Where Found

Medicines with these brand names contain methadone:

      * Dolophine
      * Methadose
      * Physeptone 

Other medicines may also contain methadone. The ones above include methadone
products that are swallowed or injected into a vein, muscle, or under the
skin.

## Symptoms

Below are symptoms of a methadone overdose in different parts of the body.

EYES, EARS, NOSE, AND THROAT

      * Tiny pupils 

STOMACH AND INTESTINES

      * Constipation
      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Spasms of the stomach or intestines 

HEART AND BLOOD

      * Low blood pressure
      * Weak pulse 

LUNGS

      * Breathing problems, including slow, labored, or shallow breathing
      * No breathing 

NERVOUS SYSTEM

      * Coma (decreased level of consciousness and lack of responsiveness)
      * Confusion
      * Disorientation
      * Dizziness
      * Drowsiness
      * Fatigue
      * Muscle twitches
      * Weakness 

SKIN

      * Blue fingernails and lips
      * Cold, clammy skin 

## Home Care

Seek medical help right away. DO NOT make the person throw up unless poison
control or a health care provider tells you to.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

      * Person's age, weight, and condition
      * Name of the medicine (strength, if known)
      * Time it was swallowed
      * Amount swallowed 

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This national hotline will let you talk to experts in
poisoning. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

The provider will measure and monitor your vital signs, including temperature,
pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure.

Tests that may be done include:

      * Blood and urine tests
      * Chest x-ray
      * CT scan
      * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)

Treatment may include:

      * Fluids through a vein (by IV)
      * Medicine to reverse the effects of the methadone (an antidote) and to treat other symptoms
      * Activated charcoal
      * Laxative
      * Breathing support, including tube through the mouth and connected to a breathing machine (ventilator)

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well someone does depends on the amount of poison swallowed and how
quickly treatment is received. The faster medical help is given, the better
the chance for recovery.

If an antidote can be given, recovery from an overdose begins right away.
However, since methadone's effects can last for about a day, the person
usually stays in the hospital overnight. They may receive several doses of the
antidote.

People who take a large overdose may stop breathing. They may have seizures if
they do not get the antidote quickly. Complications such as pneumonia, muscle
damage from lying on a hard surface for a long time, or brain damage from lack
of oxygen may cause permanent disability.

Death can occur in severe cases.

## References

Aronson JK. Opioid receptor agonists. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side
Effects of Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:348-380.

Kowalchuk A, Reed BC. Substance use disorders. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 50.

Nikolaides JK, Thompson TM. Opioids. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 156.

## Review Date 9/23/2017

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Opioid Abuse and
Addiction](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OpioidAbuseandAddiction_thumb.jpg)Opioid
Misuse and Addiction _Read more_

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OpioidOverdose_thumb.jpg)Opioid Overdose
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

