Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000413.htm    
                                Description: Psoriatic arthritis is a joint problem (arthritis) that often occurs with a skin condition called psoriasis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Psoriatic arthritis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000413.htm

# Psoriatic arthritis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Psoriatic arthritis is a joint problem (arthritis) that often occurs with a
skin condition called psoriasis.

## Causes

Psoriasis is a common skin problem that causes red patches on the body. It is
an ongoing (chronic) inflammatory condition. This condition occurs in about 7
to 42 percent people with psoriasis. Nail psoriasis is linked to psoriatic
arthritis.

In most cases, psoriasis comes before the arthritis.

The cause of psoriatic arthritis is not known. Genes, immune system, and
environmental factors may play a role. It is likely that the skin and joint
diseases may have similar causes. However, they may not occur together.

## Symptoms

The arthritis may be mild and involve only a few joints. The joints at the end
of the fingers or toes may be more affected.

In some people, the disease may be severe and affect many joints, including
the spine. Symptoms in the spine include stiffness and pain. They most often
occur in the lower spine and sacrum.

Some people with psoriatic arthritis may have inflammation of the eyes.

Most of the time, people with psoriatic arthritis have the skin and nail
changes of psoriasis. Often, the skin gets worse at the same time as the
arthritis.

## Exams and Tests

During a physical exam, the health care provider will look for:

      * Joint swelling
      * Skin patches (psoriasis) and pitting in the nails
      * Tenderness 
      * Inflammation in the eyes

Joint x-rays may be done.

There are no specific blood tests for psoriatic arthritis or for psoriasis.
The provider may test for a gene called HLA-B27.

People with involvement of the back are more likely to have HLA-B27.

## Treatment

Your provider may give nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) to reduce
pain and swelling of the joints.

Arthritis that does not improve with NSAIDs will need to be treated with
medicines called disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs). These
include:

      * Methotrexate
      * Leflunomide
      * SulfasalazineÂ 

Apremilast (Otezla) is another medicine used for the treatment of psoriatic
arthritis.

New biologic medicines are being widely used for progressive psoriatic
arthritis. These medicines block an inflammatory protein called tumor necrosis
factor (TNF). These are given by injection and include:

      * Adalimumab (Humira)
      * Certolizumab (Cimzia)
      * Etanercept (Enbrel)
      * Golimumab (Simponi)
      * Infliximab (Remicade)Â 

Other new biologic medicines are available to treat growing psoriatic
arthritis. These medicines are also given by injection and include:

      * Secukinumab (Cosentyx)
      * Ixekizumab (Taltz)
      * Ustekinumab (Stelara)
      * Abatacept (Orencia)

Very painful joints may be treated with steroid injection. These are used when
only one or a few joints are involved.

In rare cases, surgery may be needed to repair or replace damaged joints.

People with inflammation of the eye should see an ophthalmologist.

Your provider may suggest a mix of rest and exercise. Physical therapy may
help increase joint movement. You may also use heat and cold therapy.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The disease is often mild and affects only a few joints. In some people, very
bad psoriatic arthritis may cause deformities in the hands, feet, and spine.

Early treatment can ease pain and prevent joint damage, even in very bad
cases.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of arthritis along with psoriasis.

## Alternative Names

Arthritis - psoriatic; Psoriasis - psoriatic arthritis; Spondyloarthritis -
psoriatic arthritis; PsA

## Images

      * ![Psoriasis - guttate on the arms and chest](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2505t.jpg)Psoriasis - guttate on the arms and chest
      * ![Psoriasis - guttate on the cheek](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2506t.jpg)Psoriasis - guttate on the cheek

## References

Bruce IN, Ho PYP. Clinical features of psoriatic arthritis. In: Hochberg MC,
Gravallese EM, Silman AJ, Smolen JS, Weinblatt ME, Weisman MH, eds.
_Rheumatology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 128.

FitzGerald O, Elmamoun M. Psoriatic arthritis. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC,
Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelley and Firestein's Textbook of
Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2017:chap 77.

Smolen JS, SchÃ¶ls M, Braun J, et al. Treating axial spondyloarthritis and
peripheral spondyloarthritis, especially psoriatic arthritis, to target: 2017
update of recommendations by an international task force. _Ann Rheum Dis._
2018;77(1):3-17. PMID: 28684559 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28684559.  

Veale DJ, Orr C. Management of psoriatic arthritis. In: Hochberg MC,
Gravallese EM, Silman AJ, Smolen JS, Weinblatt ME, Weisman MH, eds.
_Rheumatology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 131.

## Review Date 1/29/2018

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, ABIM Board Certified in Rheumatology,
Seattle, WA. Internal review and update on 03/28/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Psoriatic
Arthritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PsoriaticArthritis_thumb.jpg)Psoriatic
Arthritis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

