Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000406.htm    
                                Description: Ectopic Cushing syndrome is a form of Cushing syndrome in which a tumor outside the pituitary gland produces a hormone called adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ectopic Cushing syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000406.htm

# Ectopic Cushing syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ectopic Cushing syndrome is a form of Cushing syndrome in which a tumor
outside the pituitary gland produces a hormone called adrenocorticotropic
hormone (ACTH).

## Causes

Cushing syndrome is a disorder that occurs when your body has a higher than
normal level of the hormone cortisol. This hormone is made in the adrenal
glands. Too much cortisol can be due to various problems. One of the causes is
if there is too much of the hormone ACTH in the blood. ACTH is usually made by
the pituitary in small amounts and then signals the adrenal glands to produce
cortisol. Sometimes other cells outside the pituitary can make large amounts
of ACTH. This is called ectopic Cushing syndrome. Ectopic means that something
is occurring in an abnormal place in the body.

Ectopic Cushing syndrome is caused by tumors that release ACTH. Tumors that
can, in rare cases, release ACTH include:

      * Benign carcinoid tumors of the lung
      * Islet cell tumors of the pancreas
      * Medullary carcinoma of the thyroid
      * Small cell tumors of the lung
      * Tumors of the thymus gland 

## Symptoms

Ectopic Cushing syndrome can cause a lot of different symptoms. Some people
have many symptoms while others have only a few. Most people with any type of
Cushing syndrome have:

      * Round, red, and full face (moon face)
      * Slow growth rate in children
      * Weight gain with fat accumulation on the trunk, but fat loss from the arms, legs, and buttocks (central obesity) 

Skin changes that are often seen:

      * Skin infections
      * Purple stretch marks (1/2 inch 1 centimeter or more wide) called striae on the skin of the abdomen, thighs, upper arms, and breasts
      * Thin skin with easy bruising 

Muscle and bone changes include:

      * Backache, which occurs with routine activities
      * Bone pain or tenderness
      * Collection of fat between the shoulders and above the collar bone
      * Rib and spine fractures caused by thinning of the bones
      * Weak muscles, especially of the hips and shoulders 

Body-wide (systemic) problems may include:

      * Type 2 diabetes mellitus
      * High blood pressure
      * High cholesterol and triglycerides  

Women may have:

      * Excess hair growth on the face, neck, chest, abdomen, and thighs
      * Periods that become irregular or stop 

Men may have:

      * Decreased or no desire for sex
      * Impotence

Other symptoms that may occur include:

      * Mental changes, such as depression, anxiety, or changes in behavior
      * Fatigue
      * Headache
      * Increased thirst and urination

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
symptoms.

Tests that may be done include:

      * 24-hour urine sample to measure cortisol and creatinine levels
      * Blood tests to check ACTH, cortisol, and potassium levels (often very low in ectopic Cushing syndrome)
      * Dexamethasone suppression test (both high and low dose) 
      * Inferior petrosal sinus sampling (a special test that measures ACTH from veins near the brain and in the chest)
      * Fasting glucose
      * MRI and high resolution CT scans to find the tumor (sometimes nuclear medicine scans may be needed)

## Treatment

The best treatment for ectopic Cushing syndrome is surgery to remove the
tumor. Surgery is usually possible when the tumor is noncancerous (benign).

In some cases, the tumor is cancerous and spreads to other areas of the body
before the doctor can discover the problem with cortisol production. Surgery
may not be possible in these cases. But the doctor may prescribe medicines to
block cortisol production.

Sometimes removal of both adrenal glands is needed if the tumor cannot be
found and medicines do not fully block cortisol production.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Surgery to remove the tumor may lead to full recovery. But there is a chance
that the tumor will come back.

## Possible Complications

The tumor may spread or return after surgery. A high cortisol level may
continue.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of Cushing syndrome.

## Prevention

Prompt treatment of tumors may reduce the risk in some cases. Many cases are
not preventable.

## Alternative Names

Cushing syndrome - ectopic; Ectopic ACTH syndrome

## Images

      * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands

## References

Nieman LK, Biller BM, Findling JW, et al. Treatment of Cushing's syndrome: an
Endocrine Society clinical practice guideline. _J Clin Endocrinol Metab_.
2015;100(8):2807-2831. PMID 26222757 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26222757.

Stewart PM, Newell-Price JDC. The adrenal cortex. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS,
Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 15.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cushing's
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cushing'sSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Cushing's
Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

