Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003694.htm    
                                Description: Dexamethasone suppression test measures whether adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) secretion by the pituitary can be suppressed.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dexamethasone suppression test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003694.htm

# Dexamethasone suppression test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Dexamethasone suppression test measures whether adrenocorticotrophic hormone
(ACTH) secretion by the pituitary can be suppressed.

## How the Test is Performed

During this test, you will receive dexamethasone. This is a strong man-made
(synthetic) glucocorticoid medicine. Afterward, your blood is drawn so that
the cortisol level in your blood can be measured.

There are two different types of dexamethasone suppression tests: low dose and
high dose. Each type can either be done in an overnight (common) or standard
(3-day) method (rare). There are different processes that may be used for
either test. Examples of these are described below.

Common:

      * Low-dose overnight -- You will get 1 milligram (mg) of dexamethasone at 11 p.m., and a health care provider will draw your blood the next morning at 8 a.m. for a cortisol measurement.
      * High-dose overnight -- The provider will measure your cortisol on the morning of the test. Then you will receive 8 mg of dexamethasone at 11 p.m. Your blood is drawn the next morning at 8 a.m. for a cortisol measurement. 

Rare:

      * Standard low-dose -- Urine is collected over 3 days (stored in 24-hour collection containers) to measure cortisol. On day 2, you will get a low dose (0.5 mg) of dexamethasone by mouth every 6 hours for 48 hours.
      * Standard high-dose -- Urine is collected over 3 days (stored in 24-hour collection containers) for measurement of cortisol. On day 2, you will receive a high dose (2 mg) of dexamethasone by mouth every 6 hours for 48 hours.

Read and follow the instructions carefully. The most common cause of an
abnormal test result is when instructions are not followed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

The provider may tell you to stop taking certain medicines that can affect the
test, including:

      * Antibiotics
      * Anti-seizure drugs
      * Medicines that contain corticosteroids, such as hydrocortisone, prednisone
      * Estrogen
      * Oral birth control (contraceptives)
      * Water pills (diuretics) 

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or slight bruising. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done when theÂ provider suspects that your body is producing too
much cortisol. It is done to help diagnose Cushing syndrome and identify the
cause.

The low-dose test can help tell whether your body is producing too much ACTH.
The high-dose test can help determine whether the problem is in the pituitary
gland (Cushing disease).

Dexamethasone is a man-made (synthetic) steroid that bids to the same receptor
as cortisol. Dexamethasone reduces ACTH release in normal people. Therefore,
taking dexamethasone should reduce ACTH level and lead to a decreased cortisol
level.

If your pituitary gland produces too much ACTH, you will have an abnormal
response to the low-dose test. But you can have a normal response to the high-
dose test.

## Normal Results

Cortisol level should decrease after you receive dexamethasone.

Low dose:

      * Overnight -- 8 a.m. plasma cortisol lower than 1.8 micrograms per deciliter (mcg/dL) or 50 nanomoles per liter (nmol/L)
      * Standard -- Urinary free cortisol on day 3 lower than 10 micrograms per day (mcg/day) or 280 nmol/L

High dose:

      * Overnight -- greater than 50% reduction in plasma cortisol
      * Standard -- greater than 90% reduction in urinary free cortisol 

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or may test different specimens. Talk to your
doctor about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal response to the low-dose test may mean that you have abnormal
release of cortisol (Cushing syndrome). This could be due to:

      * Adrenal tumor that produces cortisol
      * Pituitary tumor that produces ACTH
      * Tumor in the body that produces ACTH (ectopic Cushing syndrome) 

The high-dose test can help tell a pituitary cause (Cushing disease) from
other causes. An ACTH blood test may also help identify the cause of high
cortisol.

Abnormal results vary based on the condition causing the problem.

Cushing syndrome caused by an adrenal tumor:

      * Low-dose test -- no decrease in blood cortisol
      * ACTH level -- low
      * In most cases, the high-dose test is not needed 

Ectopic Cushing syndrome:

      * Low-dose test -- no decrease in blood cortisol
      * ACTH level -- high
      * High-dose test -- no decrease in blood cortisol 

Cushing syndrome caused by a pituitary tumor (Cushing disease)

      * Low-dose test -- no decrease in blood cortisol
      * High-dose test -- expected decrease in blood cortisol 

False test results can occur due to many reasons, including different
medicines, obesity, depression, and stress. False results are more common in
women than men.

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one patient to another, and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

      * Excessive bleeding
      * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
      * Multiple punctures to locate veins
      * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
      * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

DST; ACTH suppression test; Cortisol suppression test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Dexamethasone suppression test - diagnostic. In:
Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_.
6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:437-438.

Guber HA, Farag AF. Evaluation of endocrine function. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 24.

Stewart PM, Newell-Price JDC. The adrenal cortex. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS,
Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 15.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cushing's
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cushing'sSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Cushing's
Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

