Link: https://medlineplus.gov/helicobacterpyloriinfections.html    
                                Description: H. Pylori is a bacterium that can infect the stomach. Being infected is associated with an increased risk of developing peptic ulcers. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Helicobacter Pylori Infections

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/helicobacterpyloriinfections.html

#  Helicobacter Pylori Infections

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children

## Summary

Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) is a type of bacteria that causes infection in
the stomach. It is the main cause of peptic ulcers, and it can also cause
gastritis and stomach cancer.

About 30 to 40 percent of people in the United States get an H. pylori
infection. Most people get it as a child. H. pylori usually does not cause
symptoms. But it can break down the inner protective coating in some people's
stomachs and cause inflammation. This can lead to gastritis or a peptic ulcer.

Researchers aren't sure how H. pylori spreads. They think that it may spread
by unclean food and water, or through contact with an infected person's saliva
and other body fluids.

A peptic ulcer causes a dull or burning pain in your stomach, especially when
you have an empty stomach. It lasts for minutes to hours, and it may come and
go for several days or weeks. It may also cause other symptoms, such as
bloating, nausea, and weight loss. If you have the symptoms of a peptic ulcer,
your health care provider will check to see whether you have H. pylori. There
are blood, breath, and stool tests to check for H. pylori. In some cases, you
may need an upper endoscopy, often with a biopsy.

If you do have a peptic ulcer, the treatment is with a combination of
antibiotics and acid-reducing medicines. You will need to be tested again
after treatment to make sure the infection is gone.

There is no vaccine for H. pylori. Since H. pylori might spread through
unclean food and water, you might be able to prevent it if you

    * Wash your hands after using the bathroom and before eating
    * Eat properly prepared food
    * Drink water from a clean, safe source

NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Start Here

    * Helicobacter pylori (Nemours Foundation)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Helicobacter Pylori (H. Pylori) Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Stool Test: H. Pylori Antigen (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Gastritis and Gastropathy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
    * Gut Feelings About Gastritis: When Your Stomach's Sick ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Specifics

    * Definition and Facts for Peptic Ulcers (Stomach Ulcers) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
    * Helicobacter pylori and Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Helicobacter Infections ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Helicobacter pylori prevalence in the Southwest of China: A protocol for...
    * Article: Comparison of 7- and 14-Day Eradication Therapy for Helicobacter pylori with...
    * Article: Plasma cells and lymphoid aggregates in sleeve gastrectomy specimens: Normal or...
    * Helicobacter Pylori Infections -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * Helicobacter pylori (Nemours Foundation)
    * Helicobacter Pylori Infections (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish
    * Stool Test: H. Pylori Antigen (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Helicobacter Pylori
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HelicobacterPyloriInfections.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Helicobacter pylori infection
    * Tests for H. pylori

## Related Health Topics

    * Peptic Ulcer
    * Stomach Cancer

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Helicobacter Pylori Infections is
the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 16 December 2019 Topic last reviewed: 14 July 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

