Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000389.htm    
                                Description: Exogenous Cushing syndrome is a form of Cushing syndrome that occurs in people taking glucocorticoid (also called corticosteroid, or steroid) hormones.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Exogenous Cushing syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000389.htm

# Exogenous Cushing syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Exogenous Cushing syndrome is a form of Cushing syndrome that occurs in people
taking glucocorticoid (also called corticosteroid, or steroid) hormones.

## Causes

Cushing syndrome is a disorder that occurs when your body has a higher than
normal level of the hormone cortisol. This hormone is normally made in the
adrenal glands.

Exogenous means caused by something outside the body. Exogenous Cushing
syndrome occurs when a person takes man-made (synthetic) glucocorticoid
medicines to treat a disease.

Glucocorticoids are given for many diseases, such as lung diseases, skin
conditions, inflammatory bowel disease, cancer, brain tumors, and joint
disease. These medicines come in many forms, including pill, intravenous (IV),
injection into a joint, enema, skin creams, inhalers, and eye drops.

## Symptoms

Most people with Cushing syndrome have:

      * Round, red, full face (moon face)
      * Slow growth rate (in children)
      * Weight gain with fat accumulation on the trunk, but fat loss from the arms, legs, and buttocks (central obesity) 

Skin changes that are often seen include:

      * Skin infections
      * Purple stretch marks (1/2 inch or 1 centimeter or more wide), called striae, on the skin of the abdomen, thighs, upper arms, and breasts
      * Thin skin with easy bruising 

Muscle and bone changes include:

      * Backache, which occurs with routine activities
      * Bone pain or tenderness
      * Collection of fat between the shoulders and above the collar bone
      * Rib and spine fractures caused by thinning of the bones
      * Weak muscles, especially of the hips and shoulders 

Body-wide (systemic) problems may include:

      * Type 2 diabetes
      * High blood pressure
      * High cholesterol and triglycerides

Women may have:

      * Periods that become irregular or stop 

Men may have:

      * Decreased or no desire for sex (low libido)
      * Erection problems

Other symptoms that may occur include:

      * Mental changes, such as depression, anxiety, or changes in behavior
      * Fatigue
      * Headache
      * Increased thirst and urination 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
symptoms and the medicines you are taking. Tell the provider about all
medicines you have been taking for the past several months. Also tell the
provider about shots that you received at a provider's office.

If you use cortisone, prednisone, or other corticosteroids, the following test
results may suggest exogenous Cushing syndrome:

      * Low ACTH level
      * Low cortisol level (or high cortisol level) in the blood or urine, depending on the medicine you are taking
      * Abnormal response to an cosyntropin (ACTH) stimulation test
      * Higher than normal fasting glucose
      * Low blood potassium level
      * Low bone density, as measured by bone mineral density test
      * High cholesterol, particularly high triglycerides and low high-density lipoprotein (HDL) 

A method called high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) can show a high
level of the suspected medicine in the urine.

## Treatment

Treatment is to decrease and eventually stop taking any corticosteroids. This
may be done slowly or quickly, depending on why you are being treated with
corticosteroid. Do not stop taking any medicine without first talking to your
provider. Suddenly stopping corticosteroids after taking them for a long time
can result in a life-threatening condition called adrenal crisis.

If you cannot stop taking the medicine because of disease (for example, you
need glucocorticoid medicine to treat severe asthma), follow your provider's
instructions on how to reduce the possibility of developing complications,
including:

      * Treating high blood sugar with diet, oral medicines, or insulin.
      * Treating high cholesterol with diet or medicines.
      * Taking medicines to prevent bone loss. This can help reduce the risk of fractures if you develop osteoporosis. 
      * Taking other medicines to decrease the amount of glucocorticoid medicine that you need.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Slowly tapering the medicine that is causing the condition can help reverse
the effects of adrenal gland shrinkage (atrophy). This may take months to as
long as a year. During this time, you may need to restart or increase the
dosage of your steroids in times of stress or illness.

## Possible Complications

Health problems that may result from exogenous Cushing syndrome include any of
the following:

      * Low immune system, which may lead to frequent infections
      * Damage to the eyes, kidneys, and nerves due to untreated high blood sugar
      * Diabetes
      * High cholesterol levels
      * Increased risk of heart attack from untreated diabetes and high cholesterol
      * Increased risk of blood clots
      * Weak bones (osteoporosis) and increased risk of fractures

These complications can generally be prevented with proper treatment.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if you are taking a corticosteroid
and you develop symptoms of Cushing syndrome.

## Prevention

If you take a corticosteroid, know the signs and symptoms of Cushing syndrome.
Getting treated early can help prevent any long-term effects of Cushing
syndrome. If you use inhaled steroids, you can decrease your exposure to the
steroids by using a spacer and by rinsing your mouth after breathing in the
steroids.

## Alternative Names

Cushing syndrome - corticosteroid induced; Corticosteroid-induced Cushing
syndrome; Iatrogenic Cushing syndrome

## Images

      * ![Hypothalamus hormone production](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9417t.jpg)Hypothalamus hormone production

## References

Nieman LK, Biller BM, Findling JW, et al. __Treatment of Cushing's syndrome:
an Endocrine Society clinical practice guideline _._ _J C_ _lin Endocrinol
Metab._ 2015;100(8):2807-2831. PMID: 26222757
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26222757.

Stewart PM, Newell-Price JDC. The adrenal cortex. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS,
Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology._ 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 15.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cushing's
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cushing'sSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Cushing's
Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

