Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000407.htm    
                                Description: Cushing syndrome due to adrenal tumor is a form of Cushing syndrome. It occurs when a tumor of the adrenal gland releases excess amounts of the hormone cortisol.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cushing syndrome due to adrenal tumor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000407.htm

# Cushing syndrome due to adrenal tumor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cushing syndrome due to adrenal tumor is a form of Cushing syndrome. It occurs
when a tumor of the adrenal gland releases excess amounts of the hormone
cortisol.

## Causes

Cushing syndrome is a disorder that occurs when your body has a higher than
normal level of the hormone cortisol. This hormone is made in the adrenal
glands. Too much cortisol can be due to various problems. One such problem is
a tumor on one of the adrenal glands. Adrenal tumors release cortisol.

Adrenal tumors are rare. They can be noncancerous (benign) or cancerous
(malignant).

Noncancerous tumors that can cause Cushing syndrome include:

      * Adrenal adenomas, a common tumor that rarely makes excess cortisol
      * Macronodular hyperplasia, which causes the adrenal glands to enlarge and make excess cortisol

Cancerous tumors that may cause Cushing syndrome include an adrenal carcinoma.
This is a rare tumor, but it usually makes excess cortisol.

## Symptoms

Most people with Cushing syndrome have:

      * Round, red, full face (moon face)
      * Slow growth rate in children
      * Weight gain with fat accumulation on the trunk, but fat loss from the arms, legs, and buttocks (central obesity) 

Skin changes that are often seen:

      * Skin infections
      * Purple stretch marks (1/2 inch or 1 centimeter or more wide), called striae, on the skin of the abdomen, thighs, upper arms, and breasts
      * Thin skin with easy bruising 

Muscle and bone changes include:

      * Backache, which occurs with routine activities
      * Bone pain or tenderness
      * Collection of fat between the shoulders and above the collar bone
      * Rib and spine fractures caused by thinning of the bones
      * Weak muscles, especially of the hips and shoulders 

Body-wide (systemic) changes include:

      * Type 2 diabetes mellitus
      * High blood pressure
      * Increased cholesterol and triglycerides

Women often have:

      * Excess hair growth on the face, neck, chest, abdomen, and thighs (more common than in other types of Cushing syndrome)
      * Periods that become irregular or stop 

Men may have:

      * Decreased or no desire for sex (low libido)
      * Erection problems

Other symptoms that may occur include:

      * Mental changes, such as depression, anxiety, or changes in behavior
      * Fatigue
      * Headache
      * Increased thirst and urination 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
symptoms.

Tests to confirm Cushing syndrome:

      * 24-hour urine sample to measure cortisol and creatinine levels
      * Blood tests to check ACTH, cortisol, and potassium levels
      * Dexamethasone suppression test
      * Blood cortisol levels
      * Blood DHEA level
      * Saliva cortisol level 

Tests to determine cause or complications include:

      * Abdominal CT
      * ACTH
      * Bone mineral density
      * Cholesterol
      * Fasting glucose 

## Treatment

Surgery is done to remove the adrenal tumor. Often, the entire adrenal gland
is removed.

Glucocorticoid replacement treatment is usually needed until the other adrenal
gland recovers from surgery. You may need this treatment for 3 to 12 months.

If surgery is not possible, such as in cases of adrenal cancer that has spread
(metastasis), medicines can be used to stop the release of cortisol.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People with an adrenal tumor who have surgery have an excellent outlook. For
adrenal cancer, surgery is sometimes not possible. When surgery is performed,
it does not always cure the cancer.

## Possible Complications

Cancerous adrenal tumors can spread to the liver or lungs.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop any symptoms of Cushing syndrome.

## Prevention

Appropriate treatment of adrenal tumors may reduce the risk of complications
in some people with adrenal tumor-related Cushing syndrome.

## Alternative Names

Adrenal tumor - Cushing syndrome

## Images

      * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
      * ![Adrenal metastases - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1146t.jpg)Adrenal metastases - CT scan
      * ![Adrenal Tumor - CT](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1147t.jpg)Adrenal Tumor - CT

## References

Asban A, Patel AJ, Reddy S, Wang T, Balentine CJ, Chen H. Cancer of the
endocrine system. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Kastan MB, Doroshow JH,
Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 68.

Nieman LK, Biller BM, Findling JW, et al. Treatment of Cushing's syndrome: an
Endocrine Society clinical practice guideline. _J Clin Endocrinol Metab_.
2015;100(8):2807-2831. PMID: 26222757 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26222757.

Stewart PM, Newell-Price JDC. The adrenal cortex. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS,
Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 15.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cushing's
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cushing'sSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Cushing's
Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

