Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000410.htm    
                                Description: Cushing syndrome is a disorder that occurs when your body has a high level of the hormone cortisol.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cushing syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000410.htm

# Cushing syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cushing syndrome is a disorder that occurs when your body has a high level of
the hormone cortisol.

## Causes

The most common cause of Cushing syndrome is taking too much glucocorticoid or
corticosteroid medicine. This form of Cushing syndrome is called exogenous
Cushing syndrome. Prednisone, dexamethasone, and prednisolone are examples of
this type of medicine. Glucocorticoids mimic the action of the body's natural
hormone cortisol. These drugs are used to treat many conditions such as
asthma, skin inflammation, cancer, bowel disease, joint pain, and rheumatoid
arthritis.

Other people develop Cushing syndrome because their body produces too much
cortisol. This hormone is made in the adrenal glands. Causes of too much
cortisol are:

      * Cushing disease, which occurs when the pituitary gland makes too much of the hormone adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH). ACTH then signals the adrenal glands to produce too much cortisol. A pituitary gland tumor can cause this condition.
      * Tumor of the adrenal gland
      * Tumor elsewhere in the body that produces corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH)
      * Tumors elsewhere in the body that produce ACTH (ectopic Cushing syndrome) 

## Symptoms

Symptoms vary. Not everyone with Cushing syndrome has the same symptoms. Some
people have many symptoms while others have hardly any symptoms.

Most people with Cushing syndrome have:

      * Round, red, full face (moon face)
      * Slow growth rate (in children)
      * Weight gain with fat accumulation on the trunk, but fat loss from the arms, legs, and buttocks (central obesity) 

Skin changes can include:

      * Skin infections
      * Purple stretch marks (1/2 inch or 1 centimeter or more wide) called striae on the skin of the abdomen, upper arms, thighs, and breasts
      * Thin skin with easy bruising (especially on the arms and hands) 

Muscle and bone changes include:

      * Backache, which occurs with routine activities
      * Bone pain or tenderness
      * Collection of fat between the shoulders and above collar bones
      * Rib and spine fractures caused by thinning of the bones
      * Weak muscles, especially of the hips and shoulders 

Body-wide (systemic) changes include:

      * Type 2 diabetes mellitus
      * High blood pressure (hypertension)
      * Increased cholesterol and triglycerides (hyperlipidemia)

Women with Cushing syndrome may have:

      * Excess hair growth on the face, neck, chest, abdomen, and thighs
      * Periods that become irregular or stop 

Men may have:

      * Decreased or no desire for sex (low libido)
      * Erection problems

Other symptoms that may occur with this disease:

      * Mental changes, such as depression, anxiety, or changes in behavior
      * Fatigue
      * Headache
      * Increased thirst and urination 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
symptoms and the medicines you are taking. Tell the provider about all
medicines you have been taking for the past several months.Â Also tell the
provider about shots that you received at a provider's office.

Laboratory tests that may be done to diagnose Cushing syndrome and identify
the cause are:

      * Blood cortisol level
      * Blood sugar
      * Saliva cortisol level
      * Dexamethasone suppression test
      * 24-hour urine for cortisol and creatinine
      * ACTH level
      * ACTH stimulation testÂ (in rare cases) 

Tests to determine the cause or complications may include:

      * Abdominal CT
      * Pituitary MRI
      * Bone mineral density

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause.

Cushing syndrome caused by corticosteroid use:

      * YourÂ provider will instruct you to slowly decrease the medicine dosage. Stopping the medicine suddenly can be dangerous.
      * If you cannot stop taking the medicine because of disease, your high blood sugar, high cholesterol levels, and bone thinning or osteoporosis should be closely monitored and treated. 

With Cushing syndrome caused by a pituitary or a tumor that releases ACTH
(Cushing disease), you may need:

      * Surgery to remove the tumor
      * Radiation after removal of a pituitary tumor (in some cases)
      * Cortisol replacement therapy after surgery
      * Medicines to replace pituitary hormones that become deficient
      * Medicines to prevent the body from making too much cortisol 

With Cushing syndrome due to a pituitary tumor, adrenal tumor, or other
tumors:

      * You may need surgery to remove the tumor.
      * If the tumor cannot be removed, you may need medicines to help block the release of cortisol. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Removing the tumor may lead to full recovery, but there is a chance that the
condition will return.

Survival for people with Cushing syndrome caused by tumors depends on the
tumor type.

Untreated, Cushing syndrome can be life threatening.

## Possible Complications

Health problems that may result from Cushing syndrome include any of the
following:

      * Diabetes
      * Enlargement of pituitary tumor
      * Bone fractures due to osteoporosis
      * High blood pressure
      * Kidney stones
      * Serious infections

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of Cushing syndrome.

## Prevention

If you take a corticosteroid, know the signs and symptoms of Cushing syndrome.
Getting treated early can help prevent any long-term effects of Cushing
syndrome. If you use inhaled steroids, you can decrease your exposure to the
steroids by using a spacer and by rinsing your mouth after breathing in the
steroids.

## Alternative Names

Hypercortisolism; Cortisol excess; Glucocorticoid excess - Cushing syndrome

## Images

      * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands

## References

Nieman LK, Biller BM, Findling JW, et al; Endocrine Society. Treatment of
Cushing's syndrome: an Endocrine Society clinical practice guideline. _J Clin
Endocrinol Metab_. 2015;100(8):2807-2831. PMID: 26222757
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26222757.

Stewart PM, Newell-Price JDC. The adrenal cortex. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS,
Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 15.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cushing's
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cushing'sSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Cushing's
Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

