Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000348.htm    
                                Description: Cushing disease is a condition in which the pituitary gland releases too much adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). The pituitary gland is an organ of the endocrine system.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cushing disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000348.htm

# Cushing disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cushing disease is a condition in which the pituitary gland releases too much
adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). The pituitary gland is an organ of the
endocrine system.

Cushing disease is a form of Cushing syndrome.Â Other forms of Cushing
syndrome include exogenous Cushing syndrome, Cushing syndrome caused by
adrenal tumor, and ectopic Cushing syndrome.

## Causes

Cushing disease is caused by a tumor or excess growth (hyperplasia) of the
pituitary gland. The pituitary gland is located just below the base of the
brain. A type of pituitary tumor called an adenoma is the most common cause.
An adenoma is a benign tumor (not a cancer).

With Cushing disease, the pituitary gland releases too much ACTH. ACTH
stimulates production and release of cortisol, a stress hormone. Too much ACTH
causes the adrenal glands to make too much cortisol.

Cortisol is normally released during stressful situations. It also has many
other functions, including:

      * Controlling the body's use of carbohydrates, fats, and proteins
      * Reducing the immune system's response to swelling (inflammation)
      * Regulating blood pressure and the body's water balance

## Symptoms

Symptoms of Cushing disease include:

      * Upper body obesity (above the waist) and thin arms and legs
      * Round, red, full face (moon face)
      * Slow growth rate in children 

Skin changes that are often seen include:

      * Acne or skin infections
      * Purple stretch marks (1/2 inch or 1 centimeter or more wide), called striae, on the skin of the abdomen, thighs, upper arms, and breasts
      * Thin skin with easy bruising, most commonly on the arms and hands 

Muscle and bone changes include:

      * Backache, which occurs with routine activities
      * Bone pain or tenderness
      * Collection of fat between the shoulders (buffalo hump)
      * Weakening of the bones, which leads to rib and spine fractures
      * Weak muscles causing exercise intolerance

Women may have:

      * Excess hair growth on the face, neck, chest, abdomen, and thighs
      * Menstrual cycle that becomes irregular or stops 

Men may have:

      * Decreased or no desire for sex (low libido)
      * Erection problems

Other symptoms or problems may include:

      * Mental changes, such as depression, anxiety, or changes in behavior
      * Fatigue
      * Frequent infections
      * Headache
      * Increased thirst and urination
      * High blood pressure
      * Diabetes

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical examination and ask about
your symptoms.

Tests are done first to confirm there is too much cortisol in the body, and
then to determine the cause.

These tests confirm too much cortisol:

      * 24-hour urine cortisol
      * Dexamethasone suppression test (low dose)
      * Salivary cortisol levels (early morning and late at night)

These tests determine the cause:

      * Blood ACTH level
      * Brain MRI
      * Corticotropin-releasing hormone test, which acts on the pituitary gland to cause the release of ACTH
      * Dexamethasone suppression test (high dose)
      * Inferior petrosal sinus sampling (IPSS) -- measures ACTH levels in the veins that drain the pituitary gland compared to the veins in the chest 

Other tests that may be done include any of the following:

      * Fasting blood glucose and A1CÂ to test for diabetes
      * Lipid and cholesterol testing
      * Bone mineral density scan to check for osteoporosis 

More than one screening test may be needed to diagnose Cushing disease. Your
provider may ask you to see a doctor who specializes in pituitary diseases.

## Treatment

Treatment involves surgery to remove the pituitary tumor, if possible. After
surgery, the pituitary gland may slowly start to work again and return to
normal.

During the recovery process from surgery, you may need cortisol replacement
treatments becauseÂ the pituitary needs time to start making ACTH again.

Radiation treatment of the pituitary gland may also be used if the tumor is
not completely removed.

If the tumor does not respond to surgery or radiation, you may need medicines
to stop your body from making cortisol.

If these treatments are not successful, the adrenal glands may need to be
removed to stop the high levels of cortisol from being produced. Removal of
the adrenal glands can cause the pituitary tumor to get much bigger (Nelson
syndrome).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Untreated, Cushing disease can cause severe illness, even death. Removal of
the tumor may lead to full recovery, but the tumor can grow back.

## Possible Complications

Health problems that may result from Cushing disease include:

      * Compression fractures in the spine 
      * Diabetes
      * High blood pressure
      * Infections
      * Kidney stones
      * Mood or other psychiatric problems 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of Cushing disease.

If you have had a pituitary tumor removed, call your provider if you have
signs of complications, including signs that the tumor has returned.

## Alternative Names

Pituitary Cushing disease;Â ACTH-secreting adenoma

## Images

      * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
      * ![Striae in the popliteal fossa](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1792t.jpg)Striae in the popliteal fossa
      * ![Striae on the leg](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2477t.jpg)Striae on the leg

## References

Juszczak A, Morris DG, Grossman AB, Nieman LK. Cushing's syndrome. In: Jameson
JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and
Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 13.

Molitch ME. Anterior pituitary. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 224.

Stewart PM, Newell-Price JDC. The adrenal cortex. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS,
Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 15.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cushing's
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cushing'sSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Cushing's
Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

