Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000565.htm    
                                Description: Anemia is a condition in which the body does not have enough healthy red blood cells. Red blood cells provide oxygen to body tissues. There are many types of anemia.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Anemia of chronic disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000565.htm

# Anemia of chronic disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Anemia is a condition in which the body does not have enough healthy red blood
cells. Red blood cells provide oxygen to body tissues. There are many types of
anemia.

Anemia of chronic disease (ACD) is anemia that is found in people with certain
long-term (chronic) medical conditions that involve inflammation.

## Causes

Anemia is a lower-than-normal number of red blood cells in the blood. ACD is a
common cause of anemia. Some conditions that can lead to ACD include:

      * Autoimmune disorders, such as Crohn disease, systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, and ulcerative colitis
      * Cancer, including lymphoma and Hodgkin disease
      * Long-term infections, such as bacterial endocarditis, osteomyelitis (bone infection), HIV/AIDS, lung abscess,Â hepatitis B or hepatitis C

## Symptoms

Anemia of chronic disease is often mild. You may not notice any symptoms.

When symptoms occur, they may include:

      * Feeling weak or tired
      * Headache
      * Paleness
      * Shortness of breath 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam.

Anemia may be the first symptom of a serious illness, so finding its cause is
very important.

Tests that may be done to diagnose anemia or rule out other causes include:

      * Complete blood count
      * Reticulocyte count
      * Serum ferritin level
      * Serum iron level
      * Bone marrow examination (in rare cases to rule out cancer)

## Treatment

Anemia is often mild enough that it does not need treatment. It may get better
when the disease that is causing it is treated.

More severe anemia, such as that caused by chronic kidney disease, cancer, or
HIV/AIDS may require:

      * Blood transfusionÂ 
      * Iron given through a veinÂ 
      * Erythropoietin, a hormone produced by the kidneys, given as a shot

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The anemia will improve when the disease that is causing it is treated.

## Possible Complications

Discomfort from symptoms is the main complication in most cases. Anemia may
lead to a higher risk for death in people with heart failure.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have a long-term (chronic) disorder and you develop
symptoms of anemia.

## Alternative Names

Anemia of inflammation; Inflammatory anemia; AOCD; ACD

## Images

      * ![Blood cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9123t.jpg)Blood cells

## References

Bunn HF. Approach to the anemias. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 158.

Nayak L, Gardner LB, Little JA. Anemia of chronic diseases. In: Hoffman R,
Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 37.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Anemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anemia_thumb.jpg)Anemia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

