Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000560.htm    
                                Description: Anemia is a condition in which the body does not have enough healthy red blood cells. Red blood cells provide oxygen to body tissues.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Anemia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000560.htm

# Anemia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Anemia is a condition in which the body does not have enough healthy red blood
cells. Red blood cells provide oxygen to body tissues.

Different types of anemia include:

      * Anemia due to vitamin B12 deficiency
      * Anemia due to folate (folic acid) deficiency
      * Anemia due to iron deficiency
      * Anemia of chronic disease
      * Hemolytic anemia
      * Idiopathic aplastic anemia
      * Megaloblastic anemia
      * Pernicious anemia
      * Sickle cell anemia
      * Thalassemia

Iron deficiency anemia is the most common type of anemia.

## Causes

Although many parts of the body help make red blood cells, most of the work is
done in the bone marrow. Bone marrow is the soft tissue in the center of bones
that helps form all blood cells.

Healthy red blood cells last between 90 and 120 days. Parts of your body then
remove old blood cells. A hormone called erythropoietin (epo) made in your
kidneys signals your bone marrow to make more red blood cells.

Hemoglobin is the oxygen-carrying protein inside red blood cells. It gives red
blood cells their color. People with anemia do not have enough hemoglobin.

![Hemoglobin](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19510.jpg)

The body needs certain vitamins, minerals, and nutrients to make enough red
blood cells. Iron, vitamin B12, and folic acid are three of the most important
ones. The body may not have enough of these nutrients due to:

      * Changes in the lining of the stomach or intestines affect how well nutrients are absorbed (for example, celiac disease)
      * Poor diet
      * Surgery that removes part of the stomach or intestines 

Possible causes of anemia include:

      * Iron deficiency
      * Vitamin B12 deficiency
      * Folate deficiency
      * Certain medicines
      * Destruction of red blood cells earlier than normal (which may be caused by immune system problems)
      * Long-term (chronic) diseases such as chronic kidney disease, cancer, ulcerative colitis, or rheumatoid arthritis
      * Some forms of anemia, such as thalassemia or sickle cell anemia, which can be inherited
      * Pregnancy
      * Problems with bone marrow such as lymphoma, leukemia, myelodysplasia, multiple myeloma, or aplastic anemia
      * Slow blood loss (for example, from heavy menstrual periods or stomach ulcers)
      * Sudden heavy blood loss 

## Symptoms

You may have no symptoms if the anemia is mild or if the problem develops
slowly. Symptoms that may occur first include:

      * Feeling weak or tired more often than usual, or with exercise
      * Headaches
      * Problems concentrating or thinking
      * Irritability
      * Loss of appetite
      * Numbness and tingling of hands and feet 

If the anemia gets worse, symptoms may include:

      * Blue color to the whites of the eyes
      * Brittle nails
      * Desire to eat ice or other non-food things (pica syndrome)
      * Lightheadedness when you stand up
      * Pale skin color
      * Shortness of breath with mild activity or even at rest
      * Sore or inflamed tongue
      * Mouth ulcers
      * Abnormal or increased menstrual bleeding in females
      * Loss of sexual desire in men 

## Exams and Tests

The provider will perform a physical examination, and may find:

      * A heart murmur
      * Low blood pressure, especially when you stand up
      * Slight fever
      * Pale skin
      * Rapid heart rate 

Some types of anemia may cause other findings on a physical exam.

Blood tests used to diagnose some common types of anemia may include:

      * Blood levels of iron, vitamin B12, folic acid, and other vitamins and minerals
      * Complete blood count
      * Reticulocyte count

Other tests may be done to find medical problems that can cause anemia.

## Treatment

Treatment should be directed at the cause of the anemia, and may include:

      * Blood transfusions
      * Corticosteroids or other medicines that suppress the immune system
      * Erythropoietin, a medicine that helps your bone marrow make more blood cells
      * Supplements of iron, vitamin B12, folic acid, or other vitamins and minerals 

## Possible Complications

Severe anemia can cause low oxygen levels in vital organs such as the heart,
and can lead to heart failure.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have any symptoms of anemia or unusual bleeding.

## Images

      * ![Red blood cells - elliptocytosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1219t.jpg)Red blood cells - elliptocytosis
      * ![Red blood cells - spherocytosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1220t.jpg)Red blood cells - spherocytosis
      * ![Red blood cells - multiple sickle cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1223t.jpg)Red blood cells - multiple sickle cells
      * ![Ovalocytoses](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1482t.jpg)Ovalocytoses
      * ![Red blood cells - sickle and Pappenheimer](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1495t.jpg)Red blood cells - sickle and Pappenheimer
      * ![Red blood cells, target cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1497t.jpg)Red blood cells, target cells
      * ![Hemoglobin](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19510t.jpg)Hemoglobin

## References

Bunn HF. Approach to the anemias. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 158.

Elghetany MT, Schexneider KI, Banki K. Erythrocytic disorders. In: McPherson
RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory
Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 32.

Lin JC. Approach to anemia in the adult and child. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ,
Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice._ 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 34.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Anemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anemia_thumb.jpg)Anemia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

