Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000571.htm    
                                Description: Anemia is a condition in which the body does not have enough healthy red blood cells. Red blood cells provide oxygen to body tissues.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hemolytic anemia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000571.htm

# Hemolytic anemia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Anemia is a condition in which the body does not have enough healthy red blood
cells. Red blood cells provide oxygen to body tissues.

Normally, red blood cells last for about 120 days in the body. In hemolytic
anemia, red blood cells in the blood are destroyed earlier than normal.

## Causes

The bone marrow is mostly responsible for making new red cells. Bone marrow is
the soft tissue in the center of bones that helps form all blood cells.

Hemolytic anemia occurs when the bone marrow isn't making enough red cells to
replace the ones that are being destroyed.

There are several possible causes of hemolytic anemia. Red blood cells may be
destroyed due to:

      * An autoimmune problem in which the immune system mistakenly sees your own red blood cells as foreign substances and destroys them
      * Genetic defects within the red cells (such as sickle cell anemia, thalassemia, and G6PD deficiency)
      * Exposure to certain chemicals, medicines, and toxins
      * Infections
      * Blood clots in small blood vessels
      * Transfusion of blood from a donor with a blood type that does not match yours

## Symptoms

You may not have symptoms if the anemia is mild. If the problem develops
slowly, the first symptoms may be:

      * Feeling weak or tired more often than usual, or with exercise
      * Feelings that your heart is pounding or racing
      * Headaches
      * Problems concentrating or thinking

If the anemia gets worse, symptoms may include:

      * Lightheadedness when you stand up
      * Pale skin
      * Shortness of breath
      * Sore tongue
      * Enlarged spleen

## Exams and Tests

A test called a complete blood count (CBC) can help diagnose anemia and offer
some hints to the type and cause of the problem. Important parts of the CBC
include red blood cell count (RBC), hemoglobin, and hematocrit (HCT).

These tests can identify the type of hemolytic anemia:

      * Absolute reticulocyte count
      * Coombs test, direct and indirect
      * Donath-Landsteiner test
      * Cold agglutinins
      * Free hemoglobin in the serum or urine
      * Hemosiderin in the urine
      * Platelet count
      * Protein electrophoresis - serum
      * Pyruvate kinase
      * Serum haptoglobin levels
      * Serum LDH
      * Carboxyhemoglobin level  

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the type and cause of the hemolytic anemia:

      * In emergencies, a blood transfusion may be needed.
      * For immune causes, medicines that suppress the immune system may be used.
      * When blood cells are being destroyed at a fast pace, the body may need extra folic acid and iron supplements to replace what is being lost.

In rare cases, surgery is needed to take out the spleen. This is because the
spleen acts as a filter that removes abnormal cells from the blood.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outcome depends on the type and cause of hemolytic anemia. Severe anemia can
make heart disease, lung disease, or cerebrovascular disease worse.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you develop symptoms of hemolytic anemia.

## Alternative Names

Anemia - hemolytic

## Images

      * ![Red blood cells, sickle cell](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1212t.jpg)Red blood cells, sickle cell
      * ![Red blood cells - multiple sickle cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1223t.jpg)Red blood cells - multiple sickle cells
      * ![Red blood cells - sickle cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1494t.jpg)Red blood cells - sickle cells
      * ![Red blood cells - sickle and Pappenheimer](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1495t.jpg)Red blood cells - sickle and Pappenheimer
      * ![Blood cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9123t.jpg)Blood cells

## References

Brodsky RA. Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ,
Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 31.

Gallagher PG. Hemolytic anemias: Red blood cell membrane and metabolic
defects. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 161.

Kumar V, Abbas AK, Aster JC. Hematopoietic and lymphoid systems. In: Kumar V,
Abbas AK, Aster JC, eds. _Robbins Basic Pathology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 12.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Anemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anemia_thumb.jpg)Anemia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

