Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007134.htm    
                                Description: Anemia is a condition in which the body does not have enough healthy red blood cells. Red blood cells provide oxygen to body tissues. There are many types of anemia.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Anemia caused by low iron - children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007134.htm

# Anemia caused by low iron - children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Anemia is a condition in which the body does not have enough healthy red blood
cells. Red blood cells provide oxygen to body tissues. There are many types of
anemia.

Iron helps make red blood cells and helps these cells carry oxygen. A lack of
iron in the body may lead to anemia. The medical name of this problem is iron
deficiency anemia.

## Causes

Anemia caused by a low iron level is the most common form of anemia. The body
gets iron through certain foods. It also reuses iron from old red blood cells.

A diet that does not have enough iron is the most common cause of this type of
anemia in children. When a child is growing rapidly, such as during puberty,
even more iron is needed.

Toddlers who drink too much cow's milk may also become anemic if they are not
eating other healthy foods that have iron.

Other causes may be:

      * The body is not able to absorb iron well, even though the child is eating enough iron.
      * Slow blood loss over a long period, often due to menstrual periods or bleeding in the digestive tract.

Iron deficiency in children can also be related to lead poisoning.

## Symptoms

Mild anemia may have no symptoms. As the iron level and blood counts become
lower, your child may:

      * Act irritable
      * Become short of breath
      * Crave unusual foods (pica)
      * Eat less food
      * Feel tired or weak all the time
      * Have a sore tongue
      * Have headaches or dizziness 

With more severe anemia, your child may have:

      * Blue-tinged or very pale whites of eyes
      * Brittle nails
      * Pale skin

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam.

Blood tests that may be abnormal with low iron stores include:

      * Hematocrit
      * Serum ferritin
      * Serum iron
      * Total iron binding capacity (TIBC)

A measurement called iron saturation (serum iron level divided by the TIBC
value) can help diagnose iron deficiency. A value of less than 15% supports
the diagnosis.

## Treatment

Since children only absorb a small amount of the iron they eat, most children
need to have 3 mg to 6 mg of iron per day.

Eating healthy foods is the most important way to prevent and treat iron
deficiency. Good sources of iron include:

      * Apricots
      * Chicken, turkey, fish, and other meats
      * Dried beans, lentils, and soybeans
      * Eggs
      * Liver
      * Molasses
      * Oatmeal
      * Peanut butter
      * Prune juice
      * Raisins and prunes
      * Spinach, kale and other green leafy vegetables

If a healthy diet does not prevent or treat your child's low iron level and
anemia, your provider will likely recommend iron supplements for your child.
These are taken by mouth.

DO NOT give your child iron supplements or vitamins with iron without checking
with your child's provider. The provider will prescribe the right kind of
supplement for your child. Too much iron in children can be toxic.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With treatment, the outcome is likely to be good. In most cases, the blood
counts will return to normal in 2 to 3 months. It is important that the
provider finds the cause of your child's iron deficiency.

## Possible Complications

Anemia caused by a low iron level can affect a child's ability to learn in
school. A low iron level can cause decreased attention span, reduced
alertness, and learning problems in children.

A low iron level can cause the body to absorb too much lead.

## Prevention

Eating a variety of healthy foods is the most important way to prevent and
treat iron deficiency.

## Alternative Names

Anemia - iron deficiency -Â children

## Images

      * ![Hypochromia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9425t.jpg)Hypochromia
      * ![Formed elements of blood](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19192t.jpg)Formed elements of blood
      * ![Hemoglobin](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19510t.jpg)Hemoglobin

## References

Fleming MD. Disorders of iron and copper metabolism, the sideroblastic
anemias, and lead toxicity. In: Orkin SH, Fisher DE, Ginsburg D, Look AT, Lux
SE, Nathan DG, eds. _Nathan and Oski's Hematology and Oncology of Infancy and
Childhood_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 11.

National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute website. Iron-deficiency anemia.
www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/iron-deficiency-anemia. Accessed April 9,
2018.

Sills R. Iron-deficiency anemia. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 455.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Anemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anemia_thumb.jpg)Anemia _Read more_

![Hierro en la dieta](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Iron_thumb.jpg)Iron _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

