Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003549.htm    
                                Description: Agglutinins are antibodies that cause the red blood cells to clump together.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Febrile/cold agglutinins

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003549.htm

# Febrile/cold agglutinins

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Agglutinins are antibodies that cause the red blood cells to clump together.

      * Cold agglutinins are active at cold temperatures.
      * Febrile (warm) agglutinins are active at normal body temperatures.

This article describes the blood test that is used to measure the level of
these antibodies in the blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

There is no special preparation.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
where the needle was inserted.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to diagnose certain infections and find the cause of
hemolytic anemia (a type of anemia that occurs when red blood cells are
destroyed). Knowing whether there are warm or cold agglutinins can help
explain why the hemolytic anemia is occurring and direct treatment.

## Normal Results

Normal results are:

      * Warm agglutinins: no agglutination in titers at or below 1:80
      * Cold agglutinins: no agglutination in titers at or below 1:16

The examples above are common measurements for results of these tests. Normal
value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs use
different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your doctor about
the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal (positive) result means there were agglutinins in your blood
sample.

Warm agglutinins may occur with:

      * Infections, including brucellosis, rickettsial disease, salmonella infection, and tularemia
      * Inflammatory bowel disease
      * Lymphoma
      * Systemic lupus erythematosus
      * Use of certain medicines, including methyldopa, penicillin, and quinidine 

Cold agglutinins may occur with:

      * Infections, such as mononucleous and mycoplasma pneumonia
      * Chicken pox (varicella)
      * Cytomegalovirus infection
      * Cancer, including lymphoma and multiple myeloma
      * Listeria monocytogenes
      * Systemic lupus erythematosus
      * Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia 

## Risks

Risks are slight but may include:

      * Excessive bleeding
      * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
      * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
      * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Considerations

If a disease linked to cold agglutinin is suspected, the person needs to be
kept warm.

## Alternative Names

Cold agglutinins; Weil-Felix reaction; Widal test; Warm agglutinins;
Agglutinins

## Images

      * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Baum SG. Mycoplasma infections. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 317.

Michel M. Autoimmune and intravascular hemolytic anemias. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 160.

Michel M, JÃ¤ger U. Autoimmune hemolytic anemia. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ,
Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 46.

## Review Date 4/10/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Anemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anemia_thumb.jpg)Anemia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

