Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000584.htm    
                                Description: Anemia is a condition in which the body does not have enough healthy red blood cells. Red blood cells provide oxygen to body tissues. There are many types of anemia.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Iron deficiency anemia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000584.htm

# Iron deficiency anemia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Anemia is a condition in which the body does not have enough healthy red blood
cells. Red blood cells provide oxygen to body tissues. There are many types of
anemia.

Iron deficiency anemia occurs when your body does not have enough iron. Iron
helps make red blood cells. Iron deficiency anemia is the most common form of
anemia.

![Reticulocytes](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1491.jpg)

## Causes

Red blood cells bring oxygen to the body's tissues. Healthy red blood cells
are made in your bone marrow. Red blood cells circulate through your body for
3 to 4 months. Parts of your body, such as your spleen, remove old blood
cells.

Iron is a key part of red blood cells. Without iron, the blood cannot carry
oxygen effectively. Your body normally gets iron through your diet. It also
reuses iron from old red blood cells.

Iron deficiency anemia develops when your body's iron stores run low. This can
occur because:

      * You lose more blood cells and iron than your body can replace
      * Your body does not do a good job of absorbing iron
      * Your body is able to absorb iron, but you are not eating enough foods that contain iron
      * Your body needs more iron than normal (such as if you are pregnant or breastfeeding) 

Bleeding can cause iron loss. Common causes of bleeding are:

      * Heavy, long, or frequent menstrual periods
      * Cancer in the esophagus, stomach, small bowel, or colon
      * Esophageal varices, often from cirrhosis
      * The use of aspirin, ibuprofen, or arthritis medicines for a long time, which can cause gastrointestinal bleeding
      * Peptic ulcer disease

The body may not absorb enough iron in your diet due to:

      * Celiac disease
      * Crohn disease
      * Gastric bypass surgery
      * Taking too many antacids or too much of the antibiotic tetracycline 

You may not get enough iron in your diet if:

      * You are a strict vegetarian
      * You do not eat enough foods that contain iron 

## Symptoms

You may have no symptoms if the anemia is mild.

Most of the time, symptoms are mild at first and develop slowly. Symptoms may
include:

      * Feeling weak or tired more often than usual, or with exercise
      * Headaches
      * Dizziness
      * Palpitations
      * Problems concentrating or thinking 

As the anemia gets worse, symptoms may include:

      * Brittle nails
      * Blue color to the whites of the eye
      * Desire to eat ice or other non-food things (pica)
      * Feeling lightheaded when you stand up
      * Pale skin color
      * Shortness of breath
      * Sore or inflamed tongue
      * Mouth ulcers
      * Uncontrolled movement of legs (during sleep)
      * Hair loss

Symptoms of the conditions (associated with bleeding) that cause iron
deficiency anemia include:

      * Dark, tar-colored stools or blood in the stool
      * Heavy menstrual bleeding (women)
      * Pain in the upper belly (from ulcers)
      * Weight loss (in people with cancer) 

## Exams and Tests

To diagnose anemia, your health care provider may order these blood tests:

      * Complete blood count
      * Reticulocyte count 
![Hemoglobin](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19510.jpg)

To check iron levels, your provider may order:

      * Bone marrow biopsy (if the diagnosis is not clear)
      * Iron binding capacity (TIBC) in the blood
      * Serum ferritin
      * Serum iron level
      * Serum hepcidin level (protein and regulator of iron in the body) 

To check for causes (blood loss) of iron deficiency, your provider may order:

      * Colonoscopy
      * Fecal occult blood test
      * Upper endoscopy
      * Tests to detect sources of blood loss in the urinary tract or uterus 

## Treatment

Treatment may include taking iron supplements and eatingÂ iron-rich foods.

Iron supplements (most often ferrous sulfate) build up the iron stores in your
body. Most of the time, your provider will measure your iron level before you
start supplements.

If you cannot take iron by mouth, you may need to take it through a vein
(intravenous) or by an injection into the muscle.

Pregnant and breastfeeding women will need to take extra iron because they
often cannot get enough iron from their normal diet.

Your hematocrit should return to normal within 6 weeks of iron therapy. You
will need to keep taking iron for another 6 to 12 months to replace the body's
iron stores in the bone marrow.

Iron supplements are mostly well tolerated, but may cause:

      * Nausea
      * Vomiting
      * Constipation 

Iron-rich foods include:

      * Chicken and turkey
      * Dried lentils, peas, and beans
      * Fish
      * Meats (liver is the highest source)
      * Soybeans, baked beans, chickpeas
      * Whole-grain bread 

Other sources include:

      * Oatmeal
      * Raisins, prunes, apricots, and peanuts
      * Spinach, kale, and other greens 

Vitamin C helps your body to absorb iron. Good sources of vitamin C are:

      * Oranges
      * Grapefruits
      * Kiwi
      * Strawberries
      * Broccoli
      * Tomatoes

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With treatment, the outcome is likely to be good, but it does depend on the
cause.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You have symptoms of iron deficiency
      * You notice blood in your stool 

## Prevention

A balanced diet should include enough iron. Red meat, liver, and egg yolks are
high sources of iron. Flour, bread, and some cereals are fortified with iron.
If advised by your provider, take iron supplements if you are not getting
enough iron in your diet.

## Alternative Names

Anemia - iron deficiency

## Images

      * ![Reticulocytes](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1491t.jpg)Reticulocytes
      * ![Blood cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9123t.jpg)Blood cells
      * ![Hemoglobin](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19510t.jpg)Hemoglobin

## References

Brandow AM. Pallor and anemia. In: Kleigman RM, Lye PS, Bordini BJ, Toth H,
Basel D, eds. _Nelson Pediatric Symptom-Based Diagnosis._ Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 37.

Means RT. Approach to anemias. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine._ 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 149.

US Department of Health and Human Services; National Heart, Lung, and Blood
Institute website. Iron-deficiency anemia. www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-
topics/iron-deficiency-anemia. Accessed April 15, 2019.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Internal review and update on
04/15/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway,
Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Anemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anemia_thumb.jpg)Anemia _Read more_

![Hierro en la dieta](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Iron_thumb.jpg)Iron _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

