Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001158.htm    
                                Description: Plummer-Vinson syndrome is a condition that can occur in people with long-term (chronic) iron deficiency anemia. People with this condition have problems swallowing due to small, thin growths of tissue    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Plummer-Vinson syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001158.htm

# Plummer-Vinson syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Plummer-Vinson syndrome is a condition that can occur in people with long-term
(chronic) iron deficiency anemia. People with this condition have problems
swallowing due to small, thin growths of tissue that partially block the upper
food pipe (esophagus).

## Causes

The cause of Plummer-Vinson syndrome is unknown. Genetic factors and a lack of
certain nutrients (nutritional deficiencies) may play a role. It is a rare
disorder that can be linked to cancers of the esophagus and throat. It is more
common in women.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Difficulty swallowing
      * Weakness 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will do an exam to look for abnormal areas on your
skin and nails.

You may have an upper GI series or upper endoscopy to look for abnormal tissue
in the food pipe. You may have tests to look for anemia or iron deficiency.

## Treatment

Taking iron supplements may improve the swallowing problems.

If supplements do not help, the web of tissue can be widened during upper
endoscopy. This will allow you to swallow food normally.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People with this conditionÂ generally respond to treatment.

## Possible Complications

Devices used to stretch the esophagus (dilators) may cause a tear. This can
lead to bleeding.

Plummer-Vinson syndrome has been linked to esophageal cancer.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * Food gets stuck after you swallow it
      * You have severe fatigue and weakness

## Prevention

GettingÂ enough iron in your diet may prevent this disorder.

## Alternative Names

Paterson-Kelly syndrome; Sideropenic dysphagia; Esophageal web

## Images

      * ![Esophagus and stomach anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8756t.jpg)Esophagus and stomach anatomy

## References

Kavitt RT, Vaezi MF. Diseases of the esophagus. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund
V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 69.

Patel NC, Ramirez FC. Esophageal tumors. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt
LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 47.

Rustgi AK. Neoplasms of the esophagus and stomach. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 192.

## Review Date 10/24/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Anemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anemia_thumb.jpg)Anemia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

