Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000578.htm    
                                Description: Drug-induced immune hemolytic anemia is a blood disorder that occurs when a medicine triggers the body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Drug-induced immune hemolytic anemia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000578.htm

# Drug-induced immune hemolytic anemia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Drug-induced immune hemolytic anemia is a blood disorder that occurs when a
medicine triggers the body's defense (immune) system to attack its own red
blood cells. This causes red blood cells to break down earlier than normal, a
process called hemolysis.

## Causes

Anemia is a condition in which the body does not have enough healthy red blood
cells. Red blood cells provide oxygen to body tissues.

Normally, red blood cells last for about 120 days in the body. In hemolytic
anemia, red blood cells in the blood are destroyed earlier than normal.

In some cases, a drug can cause the immune system to mistake your own red
blood cells for foreign substances. The body responds by making antibodies to
attack the body's own red blood cells. The antibodies attach to red blood
cells and cause them to break down too early.

Drugs that can cause this type of hemolytic anemia include:

      * Cephalosporins (a class of antibiotics), most common cause
      * Dapsone
      * Levodopa
      * Levofloxacin
      * Methyldopa
      * Nitrofurantoin
      * Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)
      * Penicillin and its derivatives
      * Phenazopyridine (pyridium)
      * Quinidine 

A rare form of the disorder is hemolytic anemia from a lack of glucose-6
phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD). In this case, the breakdown of red blood cells
is due to a certain type of stress in the cell.

Drug-induced hemolytic anemia is rare in children.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

      * Dark urine
      * Fatigue
      * Pale skin color
      * Rapid heart rate
      * Shortness of breath
      * Yellow skin and whites of the eyes (jaundice) 

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam may show an enlarged spleen. You may have blood and urine
tests to help diagnose this condition.

Tests may include:

      * Absolute reticulocyte countÂ to determine if red blood cells are being created in the bone marrow at an appropriate rate
      * Direct or indirect Coombs testÂ to check if there are antibodies against red blood cells are causing red blood cells to die too early
      * Indirect bilirubin levelsÂ to check for jaundice
      * Red blood cell count
      * Serum haptoglobinÂ to check if red blood cells are being destroyed too early
      * Urine hemoglobinÂ to check for hemolysis

## Treatment

Stopping the drug that is causing the problem may relieve or control the
symptoms.

You may need to take a medicine called prednisone to suppress the immune
response against the red blood cells. Special blood transfusions may be needed
to treat severe symptoms.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is good for most people if they stop taking the drug that is
causing the problem.

## Possible Complications

Death caused by severe anemia is rare.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See your health care provider if you have symptoms of this condition.

## Prevention

Avoid the drug that caused this condition.

## Alternative Names

Immune hemolytic anemia secondary to drugs; Anemia - immune hemolytic -
secondary to drugs

## Images

      * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Michel M. Autoimmune and intravascular hemolytic anemias. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 160.

Win N, Richards SJ. Acquired haemolytic anaemias. In: Bain BJ, Bates I, Laffan
MA, eds. _Dacie and Lewis Practical Haematology_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 13.

## Review Date 1/29/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Anemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anemia_thumb.jpg)Anemia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

