Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000530.htm    
                                Description: Hereditary spherocytic anemia is a rare disorder of the surface layer (membrane) of red blood cells. It leads to red blood cells that are shaped like spheres, and premature breakdown of red blood cells    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hereditary spherocytic anemia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000530.htm

# Hereditary spherocytic anemia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hereditary spherocytic anemia is a rare disorder of the surface layer
(membrane) of red blood cells. It leads to red blood cells that are shaped
like spheres, and premature breakdown of red blood cells (hemolytic anemia).

## Causes

This disorder is caused by a defective gene. The defect results in an abnormal
red blood cell membrane. The affected cells have a smaller surface area for
their volume than normal red blood cells, and can break open easily.

The anemia can vary from mild to severe. In severe cases the disorder may be
found in early childhood. In mild cases it may go unnoticed until adulthood.

This disorder is most common in people of northern European descent, but it
has been found in all races.

## Symptoms

Infants may have yellowing of the skin and eyes (jaundice) and pale coloring
(pallor).

Other symptoms may include:

      * Fatigue
      * Irritability
      * Shortness of breath
      * Weakness

## Exams and Tests

In most cases, the spleen is enlarged.

Laboratory tests can help diagnose this condition. Tests may include:

      * Blood smear to show abnormally shaped cells
      * Bilirubin level
      * Complete blood count to check for anemia
      * Coombs test
      * LDH level
      * Osmotic fragility or specialized testing to evaluate for the red blood cell defect
      * Reticulocyte count

## Treatment

Surgery to remove the spleen (splenectomy) cures the anemia but does not
correct the abnormal cell shape.

Families with a history of spherocytosis should have their children screened
for this disorder.

Children should wait until age 5 to have splenectomy because of the infection
risk. In mild cases discovered in adults, it may not be necessary to remove
the spleen.

Children and adults should be given a pneumococcal vaccine before spleen
removal surgery. They also should receive folic acid supplements. Additional
vaccines may be needed based on the person's history.

## Support Groups

The following resources can provide more information on hereditary spherocytic
anemia:

      * Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center -- rarediseases.info.nih.gov/diseases/6639/hereditary-spherocytosis
      * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/anemia-hereditary-spherocytic-hemolytic

## Outlook (Prognosis)

This outcome is usually good with treatment. After the spleen is removed, the
life span of the red blood cell returns to normal.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Gallstones
      * Much lower red blood cell production (aplastic crisis) caused by a viral infection, which can make anemia worse 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

      * Your symptoms get worse.
      * Your symptoms do not improve with new treatment.
      * You develop new symptoms.

## Prevention

This is an inherited disorder and may not be preventable. Being aware of your
risk, such as a family history of the disorder, may help you get diagnosed and
treated early.

## Alternative Names

Congenital spherocytic hemolytic anemia; Spherocytosis; Hemolytic anemia -
spherocytic

## Images

      * ![Red blood cells - normal](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1218t.jpg)Red blood cells - normal
      * ![Red blood cells - spherocytosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1220t.jpg)Red blood cells - spherocytosis
      * ![Blood cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9123t.jpg)Blood cells

## References

Gallagher PG. Red blood cell membrane disorders. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ,
Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 45.

Segel GB, Casey D. Hereditary spherocytosis. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 458.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Anemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anemia_thumb.jpg)Anemia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

