Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001662.htm    
                                Description: Aase syndrome is a rare disorder that involves anemia and certain joint and skeletal deformities.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aase syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001662.htm

# Aase syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Aase syndrome is a rare disorder that involves anemia and certain joint and
skeletal deformities.

## Causes

Many cases of Aase syndrome occur without a known reason and are not passed
down through families (inherited). However, some cases (45%) have been shown
to be inherited. These are due to a change in 1 of 20 genes important for
making protein correctly (the genes make ribosomal proteins).

This condition is similar to Diamond-Blackfan anemia, and the two conditions
should not be separated. A missing piece on chromosome 19 is found in some
people with Diamond-Blackfan anemia.

The anemia in Aase syndrome is caused by poor development of the bone marrow,
which is where blood cells are formed.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Absent or small knuckles
      * Cleft palate
      * Deformed ears
      * Droopy eyelids
      * Inability to fully extend the joints from birth
      * Narrow shoulders
      * Pale skin
      * Triple-jointed thumbs

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. Tests that may be done
include:

      * Bone marrow biopsy
      * Complete blood count (CBC)
      * Echocardiogram
      * X-rays

## Treatment

Treatment may involve blood transfusions in the first year of life to treat
anemia.

A steroid medicine called prednisone has also been used to treat anemia
associated with Aase syndrome. However, it should only be used after reviewing
the benefits and risks with a provider who has experience treating anemias.

A bone marrow transplant may be necessary if other treatment fails.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The anemia tends to improve with age.

## Possible Complications

Complications related to anemia include:

      * Fatigue
      * Decreased oxygen in the blood
      * Weakness 

Heart problems can lead to a variety of complications, depending on the
specific defect.

Severe cases of Aase syndrome have been associated with stillbirth or early
death.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling is recommended if you have a family history of this
syndrome and wish to become pregnant.

## Alternative Names

Aase-Smith syndrome; Hypoplastic anemia - triphalangeal thumbs, Aase-Smith
type; Diamond-Blackfan with AS-II

## References

Clinton C, Gazda HT. Diamond-Blackfan anemia. _GeneReviews_. 2014:9. PMID:
20301769 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20301769. Updated March 7, 2019. Accessed
July 31, 2019.

Gallagher PG. The neonatal erythrocyte and its disorders. In: Orkin SH, Fisher
DE, Ginsburg D, Look AT, Lux SE, Nathan DG, eds. _Nathan and Oski's Hematology
and Oncology of Infancy and Childhood_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 2.

Thornburg CD. Congenital hypoplastic anemia (Diamond-Blackfan anemia). In:
Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 475.

## Review Date 7/29/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Anemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anemia_thumb.jpg)Anemia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

