Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000576.htm    
                                Description: &#10;Anemia is a condition in which the body does not have enough healthy red blood cells. Red blood cells provide oxygen to the body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Immune hemolytic anemia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000576.htm

# Immune hemolytic anemia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Anemia is a condition in which the body does not have enough healthy red blood
cells. Red blood cells provide oxygen to the body's tissues.

Red blood cells last for about 120 days before the body gets rid of them. In
hemolytic anemia, red blood cells in the blood are destroyed earlier than
normal.

Immune hemolytic anemia occurs when antibodies form against the body's own red
blood cells and destroy them. This happens because the immune system
mistakenly recognizes these blood cells as foreign.

## Causes

Possible causes include:

      * Certain chemicals, drugs, and toxins
      * Infections
      * Transfusion of blood from a donor with a blood type that does not match
      * Certain cancers 

When antibodies form against red blood cells for no reason, the condition is
called idiopathic autoimmune hemolytic anemia.

The antibodies may also be caused by:

      * Complication of another disease
      * Past blood transfusions
      * Pregnancy (if the baby's blood type is different from the mother's)

Risk factors are related to the causes.

## Symptoms

You may not have symptoms if the anemia is mild. If the problem develops
slowly, symptoms that may occur first include:

      * Feeling weak or tired more often than usual, or with exercise
      * Headaches
      * Problems concentrating or thinking 

If the anemia gets worse, symptoms may include:

      * Lightheadedness when you stand up
      * Pale skin color (pallor)
      * Shortness of breath
      * Sore tongue 

## Exams and Tests

You may need the following tests:

      * Absolute reticulocyte count
      * Direct or indirect Coombs test
      * Hemoglobin in the urine
      * LDHÂ (level of this enzyme rises as a result of tissue damage)
      * Red blood cell count (RBC), hemoglobin, and hematocrit
      * Serum bilirubin level
      * Serum free hemoglobin
      * Serum haptoglobin
      * Donath-Landsteiner test
      * Cold agglutinins
      * Free hemoglobin in the serum or urine 
      * Hemosiderin in the urine 
      * Platelet count
      * Protein electrophoresis - serum
      * Pyruvate kinase
      * Serum haptoglobin level 
      * Urine and fecal urobilinogen

## Treatment

The first treatment tried is most often a steroid medicine, such as
prednisone. If steroid medicine do not improve the condition, treatment with
intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) or removal of the spleen (splenectomy) may
be considered.

You may receive treatment to suppress your immune system if you do not respond
to steroids. Drugs such as azathioprine (Imuran), cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan),
and rituximab (Rituxan) have been used.

Blood transfusions are given with caution, because the blood may not be
compatible and it may cause more red blood cell destruction.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The disease may start quickly and be very serious, or it may stay mild and not
need special treatment.

In most people, steroids or splenectomy can totally or partially control
anemia.

## Possible Complications

Severe anemia rarely leads to death. Severe infection may occur as a
complication of treatment with steroids, other medicines that suppress the
immune system, or splenectomy. These treatments impair the body's ability to
fight infection.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have unexplained fatigue or chest pain,
or signs of infection.

## Prevention

Screening for antibodies in donated blood and in the recipient may prevent
hemolytic anemia related to blood transfusions.

## Alternative Names

Anemia - immune hemolytic; Autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA)

## Images

      * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Michel M. Autoimmune and intravascular hemolytic anemias. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 160.

Michel M, JÃ¤ger U. Autoimmune hemolytic anemia. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ,
Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 46.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Anemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anemia_thumb.jpg)Anemia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

