Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001197.htm    
                                Description: Pyruvate kinase deficiency is an inherited lack of the enzyme pyruvate kinase, which is used by red blood cells. Without this enzyme, red blood cells break down too easily, resulting in a low level of    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pyruvate kinase deficiency

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001197.htm

# Pyruvate kinase deficiency

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pyruvate kinase deficiency is an inherited lack of the enzyme pyruvate kinase,
which is used by red blood cells. Without this enzyme, red blood cells break
down too easily, resulting in a low level of these cells (hemolytic anemia).

## Causes

Pyruvate kinase deficiency (PKD) is passed down as an autosomal recessive
trait. This means that a child must receive a non-working gene from each
parent to develop the disorder.

There are many different types of enzyme-related defects of the red blood cell
that can cause hemolytic anemia. PKD is the second most common cause, after
glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency.

PKD is found in people of all ethnic backgrounds. But, certain populations,
such as the Amish, are more likely to develop the condition.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of PKD include:

      * Low count of healthy red blood cells (anemia)
      * Swelling of the spleen (splenomegaly)
      * Yellow color of the skin, mucous membranes, or white part of the eyes (jaundice)
      * Neurologic condition, called kernicterus, that affects the brain
      * Fatigue, lethargy
      * Pale skin (pallor)
      * In infants, not gaining weight and growing as expected (failure to thrive)
      * Gallstones, usually in the teens and older 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about and check
for symptoms such as an enlarged spleen. If PKD is suspected, tests that will
likely be ordered include:

      * Bilirubin in the blood
      * CBC
      * Genetic testing for mutation in the pyruvate kinase gene
      * Haptoglobin blood test
      * Osmotic fragility
      * Pyruvate kinase activity
      * Stool urobilinogen 

## Treatment

People with severe anemia may need blood transfusions. Removing the spleen
(splenectomy) may help reduce the destruction of red blood cells. But, this
does not help in all cases. In newborns with a dangerous level of jaundice,
the provider may recommend an exchange transfusion. This procedure involves
slowly removing the infant's blood and replacing it with fresh donor blood or
plasma.

Someone who had a splenectomy should receive the pneumococcal vaccine at
recommended intervals. They also should receive preventive antibiotics until
age 5.

## Support Groups

The following resources can provide more information on PKD:

      * National Organization for Rare Disease Disorders -- www.rarediseases.info.nih.gov/diseases/7514/pyruvate-kinase-deficiency
      * NIH/NLM Genetics Home Reference -- ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/pyruvate-kinase-deficiency

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome varies. Some people have few or no symptoms. Others have severe
symptoms. Treatment can usually make symptoms less severe.

## Possible Complications

Gallstones are a common problem. They are made of too much bilirubin, which is
produced during hemolytic anemia. Severe pneumococcal disease is a possible
complication after splenectomy.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See your provider if:

      * You have jaundice (this is a symptom of many severe illnesses).
      * You have a family history of this disorder and are planning to have children. Genetic counseling can help you know how likely it will be that your child would have PKD. You can also learn about tests that check for genetic disorders, such as PKD, so that you can decide if you'd like to have these tests. 

## Alternative Names

PK deficiency; PKD

## References

Mentzer WC. Pyruvate kinase deficiency and disorders of glycolysis. In: Orkin
SH, Fisher DE, Ginsburg D, Look AT, Lux SE, Nathan DG, eds. _Nathan and Oski's
Hematology and Oncology of Infancy and Childhood_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 17.

Segel GB. Enzymatic defects (Pyruvate kinase deficiency). In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 463.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Anemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anemia_thumb.jpg)Anemia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

