Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000467.htm    
                                Description: Hospice care helps people with illnesses that cannot be cured and who are nearing death. The goal is to give comfort and peace instead of a cure. Hospice care provides:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hospice care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000467.htm

# Hospice care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hospice care helps people with illnesses that cannot be cured and who are
nearing death. The goal is to give comfort and peace instead of a cure.
Hospice care provides:

      * Support for the patient and the family
      * Relief to the patient from pain and symptoms
      * Help for family members and loved ones who want to stay close to the dying patient 

Most hospice patients are in their last 6 months of life.

## Making the Decision to Start Hospice

When you choose hospice care, you have decided that you no longer want care to
cure your terminal illness. This means no longer receiving treatment that is
intended to cure any of your chronic health problems. Any treatment provided
is intended to keep you comfortable.

Your health care providers cannot make the decision for you, but they can
answer questions and help you make your decision.

      * What is the chance for curing your cancer or illness?
      * If you cannot be cured, how much time would any active treatment provide you?
      * What would your life be like during this time?
      * Can you change your mind after you have started hospice?
      * What will the dying process be like for you? Can you be kept comfortable? 

Starting hospice care changes the way you will be receiving care, and it may
change who will be providing the care.

## What Hospice Care Offers

Hospice care is given by a team. This team may include doctors, nurses, social
workers, counselors, aides, clergy, and therapists. The team works together to
give the patient and family comfort and support.

Someone from your hospice care team is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week
to provide any support or help you, your loved one, or your family needs.

Hospice care treats the mind, body, and spirit. Services may include:

      * Control of pain.
      * Treatment of symptoms (such as shortness of breath, constipation, or anxiety). This includes medicines, oxygen, or other supplies that help you manage your symptoms.
      * Spiritual care that meets your needs.
      * Giving the family a break (called respite care).
      * Doctor services.
      * Nursing care.
      * Home health aide and homemaker services.
      * Counseling.
      * Medical equipment and supplies.
      * Physical therapy, occupational therapy or speech therapy, if needed.
      * Grief counseling and support for the family.
      * Inpatient care for medical problems, such as pneumonia. 

The hospice team is trained to help the patient and family with the following:

      * Know what to expect
      * How to deal with loneliness and fear
      * Share feelings
      * How to cope after death (bereavement care) 

## Where Does Hospice Care Take Place

Hospice care most often takes place in the patient's home or the home of a
family member or friend.

It also may be given in other locations, including:

      * A nursing home
      * A hospital
      * In a hospice center 

The person in charge of care is called the primary care giver. This may be a
spouse, life partner, family member, or friend. In some settings the hospice
team will teach the primary care giver how to care for the patient. Caring
could include turning the patient in bed, and feeding, bathing, and giving the
patient medicine. The primary care giver will also be taught about signs to
look for, so they know when to call the hospice team for help or advice.

## Alternative Names

Palliative care - hospice; End-of-life care - hospice; Dying - hospice; Cancer
- hospice

## References

Arnold R. Care of dying patients and their families. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 3.

Medicare.gov website. Medicare hospice benefits.
www.medicare.gov/Pubs/pdf/02154-Medicare-Hospice-Benefits.PDF. Updated March
2018. Accessed November 26, 2018.

Rakel RE, Trinh TH. Care of the dying patient. Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 5.

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update 11/26/2018.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Hospice Care

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

