Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007657.htm    
                                Description: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the buildup of fat in the liver that is NOT caused by drinking too much alcohol. People who have it do not have a history of heavy drinking. NAFLD is closely    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007657.htm

# Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the buildup of fat in the liver
that is NOT caused by drinking too much alcohol. People who have it do not
have a history of heavy drinking. NAFLD is closely related to being
overweight.

For many people, NAFLD causes no symptoms or problems. A more serious form of
the disease is called non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). NASH can cause
liver failure. It can also cause liver cancer.

## Causes

NAFLD is the result of more than normal deposits of fat in the liver. Things
that may put you at risk include any of the following:

      * Overweight or obesity. The more overweight you are, the higher the risk.
      * Prediabetes (insulin resistance).
      * Type 2 diabetes. 
      * High cholesterol. 
      * High triglycerides.
      * High blood pressure. 

Other risk factors may include:

      * Rapid weight loss and poor diet
      * Gastric bypass surgery
      * Bowel disease
      * Certain medicines, such as calcium channel blockers and some cancer drugs 

NAFLD also occurs in people who have no known risk factors.

## Symptoms

People with NAFLD often have no symptoms. When symptoms occur, the most common
include:

      * Fatigue
      * Pain in the upper right abdomen 

In people with NASH who have liver damageÂ (cirrhosis), symptoms may include:

      * Weakness
      * Loss of appetite
      * Nausea
      * Yellow skin and eyes (jaundice)
      * Itching
      * Fluid buildup and swelling in the legs and abdomen
      * Mental confusion
      * GI bleeding 

## Exams and Tests

NAFLD is often found during routine blood tests that are used to see how well
the liver is working.

You may have the following tests to measure liver function:

      * Complete blood count
      * Prothrombin time
      * Blood albumin level

Your health care provider may order certain imaging tests, including:

      * Ultrasound to confirm a diagnosis of NAFLD
      * MRI and CT scan

A liver biopsy is needed to confirm a diagnosis of NASH, the more severe form
of NAFLD.

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for NAFLD. The goal is to manage your risk
factors and any health conditions.

Your provider will help you understand your condition and the healthy choices
that can help you take care of your liver. These may include:

      * Losing weight if you are overweight.
      * Eating a healthy diet that is low in salt.
      * Not drinking alcohol.
      * Staying physically active.
      * Managing health conditions such as diabetes and high blood pressure.
      * Getting vaccinated for diseases such as hepatitis A and hepatitis B.
      * Lowering your cholesterol and triglyceride levels.
      * Taking medicines as directed. Talk to your provider about all medicines you take, including herbs and supplements and over-the-counter medicines.

Losing weight and managing diabetes can slow or sometimes reverse the deposit
of fat in the liver.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Many people with NAFLD have no health problems and do not go on to develop
NASH. Losing weight and making healthy lifestyle choices can help prevent more
serious problems.

It is unclear why some people develop NASH. NASH can lead to cirrhosis.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Most people with NAFLD do not know they have it. See your provider if you
begin to have unusual symptoms such as fatigue or abdominal pain.

## Prevention

To help prevent NAFLD:

      * Maintain a healthy weight.
      * Eat a healthy diet.
      * Exercise regularly.
      * Limit alcohol consumption.
      * Use medicines properly.

## Alternative Names

Fatty liver; Steatosis; Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis; NASH

## Images

      * ![Liver](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8850t.jpg)Liver

## References

Chalasani N, Younossi Z, Lavine JE, et al. The diagnosis and management of
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: practice guidance from the American
Association for the study of liver disease. _Hepatology_. 2018;67(1):328-357.
PMID: 28714183 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28714183.

National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases website.
Eating, diet, and nutrition for NAFLD and NASH. www.niddk.nih.gov/health-
information/liver-disease/nafld-nash/eating-diet-nutrition. Updated November
2016. Accessed April 22, 2019.

Torres DM, Harrison SA. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 87.

## Review Date 3/27/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Fatty
liver](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FattyLiverDisease_thumb.jpg)Fatty Liver
Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

