Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003632.htm    
                                Description: A breath alcohol test determines how much alcohol is in your blood. The test measures the amount of alcohol in the air you breathe out (exhale).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Breath alcohol test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003632.htm

# Breath alcohol test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A breath alcohol test determines how much alcohol is in your blood. The test
measures the amount of alcohol in the air you breathe out (exhale).

## How the Test is Performed

There are many brands of breath alcohol tests. Each one uses a different
method to test the level of alcohol in the breath. The machine may be
electronic or manual.

One common tester is the balloon type. You blow up the balloon withÂ one
breath until it is full. You then release the air into a glass tube. The tube
is filled with bands of yellow crystals. The bands in the tube change colors
(from yellow to green), depending on the alcohol content. Carefully read the
instructions before using the test to make sure you get an accurate result.

If an electronic alcohol meter is used, follow the instructions that come with
the meter.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Wait 15 minutes after drinking an alcoholic beverage and 1 minute after
smoking before starting the test.

## How the Test will Feel

There is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

When you drink alcohol, the amount of alcohol in your blood goes up. This is
called your blood-alcohol level.

When the amount of alcohol in the blood reaches 0.02% to 0.03%, you may feel a
relaxing "high."

When that percentage reaches 0.05% to 0.10%, you have:

      * Reduced muscle coordination
      * A longer reaction time
      * Impaired judgment and responses

Driving and operating machinery when you're "high" or drunk (intoxicated) is
dangerous. A person with an alcohol level of 0.08% and above is considered
legally drunk in most states. (Some states have lower levels than others.)

The alcohol content of exhaled air accurately reflects the alcohol content of
the blood.

## Normal Results

Normal is when the blood alcohol levelÂ is not elevated.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

With the balloon method:

      * 1 green band means that the blood-alcohol level is 0.05% or lower
      * 2 green bands mean a level between 0.05% and 0.10%
      * 3 green bands mean a level between 0.10% and 0.15%

## Risks

There are no risks with a breath alcohol test.

## Considerations

The test does not measure the driving abilities of a person. Driving abilities
vary among people with the same blood-alcohol level. Some people with a level
below 0.05% may not be able to safely drive. For people who only drink
sometimes, judgment problems occur at aÂ level of just 0.02%.

The breath alcohol test helps you to know how much alcohol it takes to raise
the blood-alcohol level to a dangerous level. Each person's response to
alcohol varies. The test may help you make better decisions about driving
after drinking.

## Alternative Names

Alcohol test - breath

## Images

      * ![Breath alcohol test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9134t.jpg)Breath alcohol test

## References

Finnell JT. Alcohol-related disease. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 142.

O'Connor PG. Alcohol use disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 33.

## Review Date 4/4/2018

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Alcohol](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Alcohol_thumb.jpg)Alcohol _Read
more_

![Impaired
Driving](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ImpairedDriving_thumb.jpg)Impaired
Driving _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

