Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001963.htm    
                                Description: Studies have shown that adults who drink light to moderate amounts of alcohol may be less likely to develop heart disease than those who do not drink at all or are heavy drinkers. However, people who do    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Wine and heart health

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001963.htm

# Wine and heart health

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Studies have shown that adults who drink light to moderate amounts of alcohol
may be less likely to develop heart disease than those who do not drink at all
or are heavy drinkers. However, people who do not drink alcohol should not
start just because they want to avoid developing heart disease.

## Information

There is a fine line between healthy drinking and risky drinking. Do not begin
drinking or drink more often just to lower your risk of heart disease. Heavier
drinking can harm the heart and liver. Heart disease is the leading cause of
death in people who abuse alcohol.

Health care providers recommend that if you drink alcohol, drink only light to
moderate amounts:

      * For men, limit alcohol to 1 to 2 drinks a day.
      * For women, limit alcohol to 1 drink a day. 

One drink is defined as:

      * 4 ounces (118 milliliters, mL) of wine
      * 12 ounces (355 mL) of beer
      * 1 1/2 ounces (44 mL) of 80-proof spirits
      * 1 ounce (30 mL) of 100-proof spirits 

Though research has found that alcohol may help prevent heart disease, much
more effective ways to prevent heart disease include:

      * Controlling blood pressure and cholesterol
      * Exercising and following a low-fat, healthy diet
      * Not smoking
      * Maintaining an ideal weight

Anyone who has heart disease or heart failure should talk to their provider
before drinking alcohol. Alcohol can make heart failure and other heart
problems worse.

## Alternative Names

Health and wine; Wine and heart disease; Preventing heart disease - wine;
Preventing heart disease - alcohol

## Images

      * ![Wine and health](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10047t.jpg)Wine and health

## References

Mozaffarian D. Nutrition and cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 49.

US Department of Health and Human Services and US Department of Agriculture
website. 2015-2020 dietary guidelines for Americans: eighth edition.
health.gov/dietaryguidelines/2015/guidelines/. Accessed May 15, 2018.

## Review Date 4/15/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Alcohol](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Alcohol_thumb.jpg)Alcohol _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

