Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000507.htm    
                                Description: Many people with alcohol problems cannot tell when their drinking is out of control. It is important to be aware of how much you are drinking. You should also know how your alcohol use may affect your    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Do you have a drinking problem?

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000507.htm

# Do you have a drinking problem?

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Many people with alcohol problems cannot tell when their drinking is out of
control. It is important to be aware of how much you are drinking. You should
also know how your alcohol use may affect your life and those around you.

One drink equals one 12-ounce (oz), or 355 milliliters (mL), can or bottle of
beer, one 5-ounce (148 mL) glass of wine, 1 wine cooler, 1 cocktail, or 1 shot
of hard liquor. Think about:

      * How often you have an alcoholic drink
      * How many drinks you have when you do drink
      * How any drinking you are doing affects your life or the lives of others 

## Responsible Drinking

Here are some guidelines for drinking alcohol responsibly, as long as you do
not have a drinking problem.

Healthy men up to age 65 should limit themselves to:

      * No more than 4 drinks in 1 day
      * No more than 14 drinks in a week 

Healthy women up to age 65 should limit themselves to:

      * No more than 3 drinks in 1 day
      * No more than 7 drinks in a week 

Healthy women of all ages and healthy men over age 65 should limit themselves
to:

      * No more than 3 drinks in 1 day
      * No more than 7 drinks in a week 

## When you Start to Drink too Much

Health care providers consider your drinking medically unsafe when you drink:

      * Many times a month, or even many times a week
      * 3 to 4 drinks (or more) in 1 day
      * 5 or more drinks on one occasion monthly, or even weekly 

## Knowing When you Have a Drinking Problem

You may have a drinking problem if you have at least 2 of the following
characteristics:

      * There are times when you drink more or longer than you planned to.
      * You have not been able to cut down or stop drinking on your own, even though you have tried or you want to.
      * You spend a lot of time drinking, being sick from drinking, or getting over the effects of drinking.
      * Your urge to drink is so strong, you cannot think about anything else.
      * As a result of drinking, you do not do what you are expected to do at home, work, or school. Or, you keep getting sick because of drinking.
      * You continue to drink, even though alcohol is causing problems with your family or friends.
      * You spend less time on or no longer take part in activities that used to be important or that you enjoyed. Instead, you use that time to drink.
      * Your drinking has led to situations that you or someone else could have been injured, such as driving while drunk or having unsafe sex.
      * Your drinking makes you anxious, depressed, forgetful, or causes other health problems, but you keep drinking.
      * You need to drink more than you did to get the same effect from alcohol. Or, the number of drinks you are used to having now have less effect than before.
      * When the effects of alcohol wear off, you have symptoms of withdrawal. These include, tremors, sweating, nausea, or insomnia. You may even have had a seizure or hallucinations (sensing things that are not there).

## When to Call The Doctor

If you or others are concerned, make an appointment with your provider to talk
about your drinking. Your provider can help guide you to the best treatment.

Other resources include:

      * Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) -- www.aa.org

## Alternative Names

Alcohol use disorder - drinking problem; Alcohol abuse - drinking problem;
Alcoholism - drinking problem; Alcohol dependence - drinking problem; Alcohol
addiction - drinking problem

## References

American Psychiatric Association. _Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental
disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing. 2013.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Fact sheets: alcohol use
and your health. www.cdc.gov/alcohol/fact-sheets/alcohol-use.htm. Updated
January 3, 2018. Accessed April 16, 2018.

Moyer VA; Preventive Services Task Force. Screening and behavioral counseling
interventions in primary care to reduce alcohol misuse: US Preventative
Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann Intern Med_.
2013;159(3):210-218. PMID: 23698791 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23698791.

National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism website. Alcohol use
disorder. www.niaaa.nih.gov/alcohol-health/overview-alcohol-
consumption/alcohol-use-disorders. Accessed April 16, 2018.

National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism website. Alcohol & your
health. www.niaaa.nih.gov/alcohol-health. Accessed April 16, 2018.

O'Connor PG. Alcohol use disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 33.

Sherin K, Seikel S, Hale S. Alcohol use disorders. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 48.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 07-09-19:
Editorial update.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Alcohol

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

