Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000527.htm    
                                Description: If you drink alcohol, health care providers advise limiting how much you drink. This is called drinking in moderation, or responsible drinking.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Responsible drinking

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000527.htm

# Responsible drinking

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If you drink alcohol, health care providers advise limiting how much you
drink. This is called drinking in moderation, or responsible drinking.

## Definition of Responsible Drinking

Responsible drinking means more than just limiting yourself to a certain
number of drinks. It also means not getting drunk and not letting alcohol
control your life or your relationships.

## Tips of Drinking Responsibly

The tips in this article are for people who:

      * DO NOT have a drinking problem, now or in the past
      * Are old enough to drink legally
      * Are not pregnant

Healthy men, up to age 65, should limit themselves to:

      * No more than 4 drinks a day
      * No more than 14 drinks a week

Healthy women of all ages and healthy men over age 65 should limit themselves
to:

      * No more than 3 drinks a day
      * No more than 7 drinks a week

Other habits that will help you be a responsible drinker include:

      * Never drinking alcohol and driving.
      * Having a designated driver if you are going to drink. This means riding with someone in your group who has not been drinking, or taking a taxi or bus.
      * Not drinking on an empty stomach. Have a snack or meal before you drink and while you are drinking.

If you take any medicines, including ones you bought without a prescription,
check with your doctor before you drink. Alcohol can affect the way your body
uses some drugs. A drug may not work correctly, or it could be dangerous or
make you sick if combined with alcohol.

If alcohol use runs in your family, you may be at a higher risk of having an
alcohol problem yourself. Not drinking at all might be best for you.

## Can Responsible Drinking Improve Your Health?

Many people drink now and then. You may have heard about some health benefits
from moderate drinking. Some of these benefits have been proven more than
others. But none of them should be used as a reason for drinking.

Some of the possible benefits of moderate drinking that have been studied are:

      * Reduced risk of heart disease or a heart attack
      * Reduced risk of strokes
      * Lower risk of gallstones
      * Lower risk of diabetes 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

      * You are concerned about your own drinking or a family member's drinking.
      * You would like more information about alcohol use or support groups for problem drinking.
      * You are unable to drink less or stop drinking, even though you have tried. 

## Alternative Names

Alcohol use disorder - responsible drinking; Drinking alcohol responsibly;
Drinking in moderation; Alcoholism - responsible drinking

## References

American Psychiatric Association. _Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental
Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing; 2013.

Moyer VA; US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening and behavioral
counseling interventions in primary care to reduce alcohol misuse: US
Preventative Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann Intern Med_.
2013;159(3):210-218. PMID: 23698791 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23698791.

National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism website. Alcohol & your
health. www.niaaa.nih.gov/alcohol-health. Accessed on April 16, 2018.

National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism website. Alcohol use
disorder. www.niaaa.nih.gov/alcohol-health/overview-alcohol-
consumption/alcohol-use-disorders. Accessed April 16, 2018.

O'Connor PG. Alcohol use disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 33.

Sherin K, Seikel S, Hale S. Alcohol use disorders. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 48.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Alcohol

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

