Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001944.htm    
                                Description: Alcohol use involves drinking beer, wine, or hard liquor.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Alcohol use and safe drinking

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001944.htm

# Alcohol use and safe drinking

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Alcohol use involves drinking beer, wine, or hard liquor.

## Information

Alcohol is one of the most widely used drug substances in the world.

TEEN DRINKING

Alcohol use is not only an adult problem. Most American high school seniors
have had an alcoholic drink within the past month. This is in spite of the
fact that the legal drinking age is 21 years old in the United States.

About 1 in 5 teens are considered "problem drinkers." This means that they:

      * Get drunk
      * Have accidents related to alcohol use
      * Get into trouble with the law, family members, friends, school, or dates because of alcohol 

THE EFFECTS OF ALCOHOL

Alcoholic drinks have different amounts of alcohol in them.

      * Beer is about 5% alcohol, although some beers have more.
      * Wine is usually 12% to 15% alcohol.
      * Hard liquor is about 45% alcohol. 

Alcohol gets into your bloodstream quickly.

The amount and type of food in your stomach can change how quickly this
occurs. For example, high-carbohydrate and high-fat foods can make your body
absorb alcohol more slowly.

Certain types of alcoholic drinks get into your bloodstream faster.Â Stronger
drinks tend to be absorbed faster.

Alcohol slows your breathing rate, heart rate, and how well your brain
functions. These effects may appear within 10 minutes and peak at around 40 to
60 minutes. Alcohol stays in your bloodstream until it is broken down by the
liver. The amount of alcohol in your blood is called your blood alcohol level.
If you drink alcohol faster than the liver can break it down, this level
rises.

Your blood alcohol level is used to legally define whether or not you are
drunk. The legal limit for blood alcohol usually falls between 0.08 and 0.10
in most states. Below is a list of blood alcohol levels and the likely
symptoms:

      * 0.05 -- reduced inhibitions
      * 0.10 -- slurred speech
      * 0.20 -- euphoria and motor impairment
      * 0.30 -- confusion
      * 0.40 -- stupor
      * 0.50 -- coma
      * 0.60 -- breathing stops and death 

You can have symptoms of being drunk at blood alcohol levels below the legal
definition of being drunk. Also, people who drink alcohol frequently may not
have symptoms until a higher blood alcohol level is reached.

HEALTH RISKS OF ALCOHOL

Alcohol increases the risk of:

      * Alcoholism
      * Falls, drownings, and other accidents
      * Head, neck, stomach, colon, breast, and other cancers
      * Heart attack and stroke
      * Motor vehicle accidents
      * Risky sex behaviors, unplanned or unwanted pregnancy, and sexually transmitted infections (STIs)
      * Suicide and homicide 

Drinking during pregnancy can harm the developing baby. Severe birth defects
or fetal alcohol syndrome are possible.

RESPONSIBLE DRINKING

If you drink alcohol, it is best to do so in moderation. Moderation means the
drinking is not getting you intoxicated (or drunk) and you are drinking no
more than 1 drink per day if you are a woman and no more than 2 if you are a
man. A drink is defined as 12 ounces (350 milliliters) of beer, 5 ounces (150
milliliters) of wine, orÂ 1.5 ounces (45 milliliters) of liquor.

Here are some ways to drink responsibly, provided you do not have a drinking
problem, are of legal age to drink alcohol, and are not pregnant:

      * Never drink alcohol and drive a car.
      * If you are going to drink, have a designated driver, or plan an alternative way home, such as a taxi or bus.
      * DO NOT drink on an empty stomach. Snack before and while drinking alcohol. 

If you are taking medicines, including over-the-counter drugs, check with your
health care provider before drinking alcohol. Alcohol can make the effects of
many medicines stronger. It can also interact with other medicines, making
them ineffective or dangerous or make you sick.

If alcohol use runs in your family, you may be at increased risk of developing
this disease yourself. So, you may want to avoid drinking alcohol altogether.

CALL YOUR HEALTH CARE PROVIDER IF:

      * You are concerned about your personal alcohol use or that of a family member
      * You are interested in more information regarding alcohol use or support groups
      * You are unable to reduce or stop your alcohol consumption, in spite of attempts to stop drinking 

Other resources include:

      * Local Alcoholics Anonymous or Al-anon/Alateen groups
      * Local hospitals
      * Public or private mental health agencies
      * School or work counselors
      * Student or employee health centers 

## Alternative Names

Beer consumption; Wine consumption; Hard liquor consumption; Safe drinking;
Teen drinking

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Substance-related and addictive disorders.
In: _American Psychiatric Association._ _Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of
Mental Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing.
2013:481-590.

Moyer VA; Preventive Services Task Force. Screening and behavioral counseling
interventions in primary care to reduce alcohol misuse: US Preventative
Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann Intern Med_.
2013;159(3):210-218. PMID: 23698791 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23698791.

National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism website. Alcohol and your
health. www.niaaa.nih.gov/alcohol-health. Accessed May 15, 2018.

National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism website. Alcohol use
disorder. www.niaaa.nih.gov/alcohol-health/overview-alcohol-
consumption/alcohol-use-disorders. Accessed June 1, 2018.

Sherin K, Seikel S, Hale S. Alcohol use disorders. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 48.

## Review Date 5/5/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Alcohol](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Alcohol_thumb.jpg)Alcohol _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

