Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003569.htm    
                                Description: The 25-hydroxy vitamin D test is the most accurate way to measure how much vitamin D is in your body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

25-hydroxy vitamin D test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003569.htm

# 25-hydroxy vitamin D test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The 25-hydroxy vitamin D test is the most accurate way to measure how much
vitamin D is in your body.

Vitamin D helps control calcium and phosphate levels in the body.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Usually, you will not need to fast. But, this depends on the laboratory and
the testing method used. So, follow any instructions for not eating before the
test.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to determine if you have too much or too little vitamin D in
your blood. Screening of all adults, even when pregnant, for low vitamin D
levels, is generally not recommended.

However, screening may be done on people who are at high risk for vitamin D
deficiency, such as those who:

      * Are obese
      * Are taking certain medicines, such as phenytoin
      * Have osteoporosis or thin bones
      * Have limited sun exposure
      * Have problems absorbing vitamins and nutrients in their intestines, such as those with ulcerative colitis, Crohn disease, or celiac disease

## Normal Results

The normal range of vitamin D is measured as nanograms per milliliter (ng/mL).
Many experts recommend a level between 20 and 40 ng/mL. Others recommend a
level between 30 and 50 ng/mL.

The examples above are common measurements for results of these tests. Normal
value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some laboratories
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your doctor
about the meaning of your specific test results, and whether you may need
vitamin D supplements.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A lower-than-normal level can be due to a vitamin D deficiency, which can
result from:

      * Lack of skin exposure to sunlight, dark skin, or constant use of high SPF sunscreen
      * Lack of enough vitamin D in the diet
      * Liver and kidney diseases
      * Poor food absorption
      * Use of certain medicines, including phenytoin, phenobarbital, and rifampin 
      * Poor vitamin D absorption due to advanced age, weight-loss surgery, or conditions in which fat is not absorbed well

A low vitamin D level is more common in African American children (especially
in the winter), as well as in infants who are breastfed only.

A higher-than-normal level may be due to excess vitamin D, a condition called
hypervitaminosis D. This is most commonly caused by taking too much vitamin D.
It can result in too much calcium in the body (hypercalcemia). This leads to
many symptoms and kidney damage.

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight but may include:

      * Excessive bleeding
      * Multiple punctures to locate veins
      * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
      * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
      * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

25-OH vitamin D test; Calcidiol; 25-hydroxycholecalciferol test

## Images

      * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Bouillon R. Vitamin D: from photosynthesis, metabolism, and action to clinical
applications. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds.
_Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 59.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Vitamin D (cholecalciferol) -- plasma or serum. In:
Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_.
6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:1182-1183.

LeFevre ML; US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for vitamin D
deficiency in adults: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation
statement. _Ann Intern Med_. 2015;162(2):133-140. PMID: 25419853
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25419853.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Vitamin D](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VitaminD_thumb.jpg)Vitamin D _Read
more_

![Vitamin D](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VitaminD_thumb.jpg)Vitamin D
Deficiency _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

