Link: https://medlineplus.gov/cholera.html    
                                Description: Cholera is a bacterial infection that causes diarrhea caused by bacteria usually found in contaminated water. Learn about symptoms and treatment.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Cholera

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/cholera.html

#  Cholera

## Summary

Cholera is a bacterial infection that causes diarrhea. The cholera bacterium
is usually found in water or food that has been contaminated by feces (poop).
Cholera is rare in the US. You may get it if you travel to parts of the world
with poor water and sewage treatment. Outbreaks can also happen after
disasters. The disease is not likely to spread directly from person to person.

Cholera infections are often mild. Some people don't have any symptoms. If you
do get symptoms, they usually start 2 to 3 days after infection. The most
common symptom is watery diarrhea.

In some cases, the infection can be severe, causing lots of watery diarrhea,
vomiting, and leg cramps. Because you quickly lose body fluids, you are at
risk for dehydration and shock. Without treatment, you could die within hours.
If you think that you might have cholera, you should get medical care right
away.

Doctors diagnose cholera with a stool sample or rectal swab. Treatment is the
replacement of the fluid and salts that you lost through the diarrhea. This is
usually with a rehydration solution that you drink. People with severe cases
may need an I.V. to replace the fluids. Some of them may also need
antibiotics. Most people who get fluid replacement right away will recover.

There are vaccines to prevent cholera. One of them is available for adults in
the U.S. Very few Americans need it, because most people do not visit areas
that have an active cholera outbreak.

There are also simple steps you can take to help to prevent cholera infection:

    * Use only bottled or purified water for drinking, washing dishes, making ice cubes, and brushing your teeth
    * If you do use tap water, boil it or use iodine tablets
    * Wash your hands often with soap and clean water
    * Make sure that the cooked food you eat is fully cooked and served hot
    * Avoid unwashed or unpeeled raw fruits and vegetables

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Learn More

    * Cholera (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Cholera Fact Sheet (World Health Organization) Also in Spanish
    * Cholera Illness and Symptoms (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Cholera in Children (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish
    * Cholera Information for Adults (Logical Images)
    * Cholera Prevention and Control (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Cholera Treatment (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Cholera ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: High cholera vaccination coverage following emergency campaign in Haiti: Results from...
    * Article: Emergence of Haitian variant genotype and altered drug susceptibility in Vibrio...
    * Article: Immune responses to O-specific polysaccharide (OSP) in North American adults infected...
    * Cholera -- see more articles

## Topic Image

![Cholera](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cholera2.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Cholera_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 19 December 2018 Topic last reviewed: 23 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

