Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002459.htm    
                                Description: Food labels contain a great deal of information on most packaged foods. The FDA has proposed updates to the current Nutrition Facts label.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Food labeling

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002459.htm

# Food labeling

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Food labels contain a great deal of information on most packaged foods. The
FDA has proposed updates to the current Nutrition Facts label.

## Function

The serving size on the label is based on an average portion size. Similar
food products have similar serving sizes to make comparing products easier.
The serving size on the label does not always correlate with a healthy serving
size. Most of the time, it does not match the serving size on the diabetic
exchange list. The United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has
proposed making changes to the food labels that may correct these problems.

AMOUNTS PER SERVING

The total calories and the calories from fat are listed. These numbers help
consumers make decisions about fat intake. The list of nutrients includes
total fat, trans fat, saturated fat, cholesterol, sodium, total carbohydrate,
dietary fiber, sugars, and protein. These nutrients are important to our
health. Their amounts are given in grams (g) or milligrams (mg) per serving to
the right of the nutrient.

VITAMINS AND MINERALS

Only 2 vitamins (A and C) and 2 minerals (calcium and iron) are required on
the food label. But, when vitamins or minerals are added to the food, or when
a vitamin or mineral claim is made, those nutrients must be listed on the
nutrition label. Food companies can voluntarily list other vitamins and
minerals in the food.

PERCENT DAILY VALUE

The amounts of vitamins and minerals are listed as a Percent Daily Value on
the nutrition label. The Percent Daily Value for vitamins and minerals gives a
general idea of how much of a vitamin or mineralÂ 1 serving of the food
contributes to the total daily requirement. For example, if the Percent Daily
Value for vitamin C of all the foods you eat in a day adds up to 100%, you are
getting the recommended amount of vitamin C.

## Food Sources

The United States government requires food labels on most packaged foods. The
label offers complete, useful, and accurate nutrition information. The
government encourages food manufacturers to improve the quality of their
products to help us make healthier food choices. The consistent format helps
you directly compare the nutritional content of various foods. Food labels are
called "Nutrition Facts."

## Recommendations

The Percent Daily Value section shows how a food fits into your overall daily
diet. The value of the nutrient is given in percentages. The Percent Daily
Value gives the food's nutritional content based on a 2,000-calorie diet. You
can use this to quickly compare foods and see how the amount of a nutrient in
a serving of food fits into a 2,000-calorie diet.

For example, a food that has 13 grams of fat with a Percent Daily Value of 20%
means that 13 grams of fat is 20%, or one-fifth, of the total daily fat
recommended for a person who eats 2,000 calories per day.

Near the bottom of some food labels, you will see a list of 6 nutrients and
the recommended daily intakes. The daily values are listed for 2,000-calorie
and for 2,500-calorie diets. Your daily values may be higher or lower
depending on your calorie needs. This information is not required if the label
is too small.

If they are included, the amounts of the first 4 nutrients near the bottom of
the label -- total fat, saturated fat, cholesterol, and sodium -- are maximum
amounts. That is why the list says "less than" before the number. The amounts
of total carbohydrate and dietary fiber are minimum amounts. This is exactly
the same on all food labels that carry it. You can use it as a reference.

NUTRIENT CONTENT CLAIMS

A nutrient content claim is a word or phrase on a food package that makes a
comment about the nutritional value of the food. The claim will mean the same
for every product. The following are some approved nutrient claims.

Calorie terms:

      * Low-calorie: 40 calories or less per serving.
      * Reduced-calorie: At least 25% fewer calories per serving when compared to a similar food.
      * Light, Lite: One-third fewer total calories or 50% less fat per serving. If more than half the calories are from fat, the fat content must be reduced by 50% or more. 

Sugar terms:

      * Sugar-free: Less than 1/2 gram of sugar per serving.
      * Reduced sugar: At least 25% less sugar per serving when compared to a similar food. 

Fat terms:

      * Fat-free: Less than 1/2 gram of fat per serving.
      * 100% fat free: Meets the requirements for fat free.
      * Low-fat: 3 grams of fat or less per serving.
      * Reduced-fat: At least 25% less fat when compared with a similar food. 

Cholesterol terms:

      * Cholesterol free: Less than 2 milligrams of cholesterol per serving and 2 grams or less of saturated fat per serving.
      * Low cholesterol: 20 milligrams or less of cholesterol per serving and 2 grams or less of saturated fat per serving. 

Sodium terms:

      * Sodium free: Less than 5 milligrams of sodium per serving.
      * Salt free: Meets the requirements for sodium free. 

HEALTH CLAIMS

The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is a United States government agency
that approves and regulates health claim phrases. A health claim is a food
label message that describes the relationship between a food or a food
component (such as fat, calcium, or fiber) and a disease or health-related
condition.

The government has authorized health claims for these 7 diet and health
relationships that are backed by extensive scientific evidence:

      1. Calcium and osteoporosis
      2. Fat and cancer
      3. Fiber in grain products, fruits, vegetables and cancer
      4. Fiber in fruits, vegetables, and grain products and coronary heart disease
      5. Fruits and vegetables and cancer
      6. Saturated fat and cholesterol and coronary heart disease
      7. Sodium and high blood pressure (hypertension) 

An example of a valid health claim you may see on a high-fiber cereal food
label would be: "Many factors affect cancer risk; eating a diet low in fat and
high in fiber may lower the risk of this disease."

For further information on specific health claims, refer to the information on
diet and health.

INGREDIENTS

Food manufacturers are required to list ingredients in descending order by
weight (from the most to the least). People with food sensitivities can obtain
useful information from the ingredient list on the label.

The ingredient list will include, when appropriate:

      * Caseinate as a milk derivative in foods that claim to be nondairy (such as coffee whiteners)
      * FDA-approved color additives
      * Sources of protein hydrolysates 

Most manufacturers offer a toll-free number to answer questions about specific
food products and their ingredients.

FOODS EXEMPT FROM FOOD LABELING

Many foods are not required to have information on them. They are exempt from
food labeling. These include:

      * Airline foods
      * Bulk food that is not resold
      * Food service vendors (such as mall cookie vendors, sidewalk vendors, and vending machines)
      * Hospital cafeterias
      * Medical foods
      * Flavor extracts
      * Food colors
      * Food produced by small businesses
      * Other foods that contain no significant amounts of any nutrients
      * Plain coffee and tea
      * Ready-to-eat food prepared mostly on the site
      * Restaurant foods
      * Spices 

Stores may voluntarily list nutrients for many raw foods. They may also
display the nutrition information for the 20 most commonly eaten raw fruits,
vegetables, and seafood. Nutrition labeling for single-ingredient raw
products, such as ground beef and chicken breasts, is also voluntary.

## Alternative Names

Nutrition labeling

## Images

      * ![Food Label Guide for Candy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19342t.jpg)Food label guide for candy
      * ![Food Label Guide for Whole Wheat Bread](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19343t.jpg)Food label guide for whole wheat bread
      * ![Read food labels](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19347t.jpg)Read food labels

## References

Ramu A, Neild P, Naish J. Diet and nutrition. In: Naish J, Syndercombe Court
D, eds. _Medical Sciences_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 16.

US Food and Drug Administration website. Food labeling & nutrition.
www.fda.gov/food/food-labeling-nutrition. Updated April 18, 2019. Accessed
April 30, 2019.

US Food and Drug Administration website. The new and improved nutrition facts
label - key changes. www.fda.gov/media/99331/download. Updated January, 2018.
Accessed July 3, 2018.

## Review Date 4/9/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update 04/30/2019.

![Food Labeling](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FoodLabeling_thumb.jpg)Food
Labeling _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

