Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001468.htm    
                                Description: Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS) is a group of inherited disorders marked by extremely loose joints,Â very stretchy (hyperelastic) skin that bruises easily, and easily damaged blood vessels.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ehlers-Danlos syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001468.htm

# Ehlers-Danlos syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS) is a group of inherited disorders marked by
extremely loose joints,Â very stretchy (hyperelastic) skin that bruises
easily, and easily damaged blood vessels.

## Causes

There are six major types and at least five minor types of EDS.

A variety of gene changes (mutations) cause problems with collagen. This is
the material that provides strength and structure to:

      * Skin
      * Bone
      * Blood vessels
      * Internal organs

The abnormal collagen leads to the symptoms associated with EDS. In some forms
of the syndrome, the rupture of internal organs or abnormal heart valves can
occur.

Family history is a risk factor in some cases.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of EDS include:

      * Back pain
      * Double-jointedness
      * Easily damaged, bruised, and stretchy skin
      * Easy scarring and poor wound healing
      * Flat feet
      * Increased joint mobility, joints popping, early arthritis
      * Joint dislocation
      * Joint pain
      * Premature rupture of membranes during pregnancy
      * Very soft and velvety skin
      * Vision problems 

## Exams and Tests

Examination by a health care provider may show:

      * Deformed surface of the eye (cornea)
      * Excess joint looseness and joint hypermobility
      * Mitral valve in the heart does not close tightly (mitral valve prolapse)
      * Gum infection (periodontitis)
      * Rupture of intestines, uterus, or eyeball (seen only in vascular EDS, which is rare)
      * Soft, thin, or very stretchy skin 

Tests to diagnose EDS include:

      * Collagen typing (performed on a skin biopsy sample)
      * Collagen gene mutation testing
      * Echocardiogram (heart ultrasound)
      * Lysyl hydroxylase or oxidase activity (to check collagen formation) 

## Treatment

There is no specific cure for EDS. Individual problems and symptoms are
evaluated and cared for appropriately. Physical therapy or evaluation by a
doctor specializing in rehabilitation medicine is often needed.

## Support Groups

These resources can provide more information on EDS:

      * National Organization of Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/ehlers-danlos-syndrome
      * US National Library of Medicine, Genetics Home Reference -- ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/ehlers-danlos-syndrome

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People with EDS generally have a normal life span. Intelligence is normal.

Those with the rare vascular type of EDS are at greater risk for rupture of a
major organ or blood vessel. These people have a high risk for sudden death.

## Possible Complications

Possible complications of EDS include:

      * Chronic joint pain
      * Early-onset arthritis
      * Failure of surgical wounds to close (or stitches tear out)
      * Premature rupture of membranes during pregnancy
      * Rupture of major vessels, including a ruptured aortic aneurysm (only in vascular EDS)
      * Rupture of a hollow organ such as the uterus or bowel (only in vascular EDS)
      * Rupture of the eyeball

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if you have a family history of EDS
and you are concerned about your risk or are planning to start a family.

Call for an appointment with your provider if you or your child has symptoms
of EDS.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling is recommended for prospective parents with a family
history of EDS. Those planning to start a family should be aware of the type
of EDS they have and its mode of how it is passed down to children. This can
be determined through testing and evaluations suggested by your provider or
genetic counselor.

Identifying any significant health risks may help prevent severe complications
by vigilant screening and lifestyle alterations.

## References

Krakow D. Heritable diseases of connective tissue. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC,
Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelly and Firestein's Textbook of
Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 105.

Pyeritz RE. Inherited diseases of connective tissue. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 260.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Ehlers-
Danlossyndrome_thumb.jpg)Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

