Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007401.htm    
                                Description: Anti-reflux surgery is surgery to tighten the muscles at the bottom of the esophagus (the tube that carries food from the mouth to the stomach). Problems with these muscles can lead to gastroesophageal    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Anti-reflux surgery - children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007401.htm

# Anti-reflux surgery - children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Anti-reflux surgery is surgery to tighten the muscles at the bottom of the
esophagus (the tube that carries food from the mouth to the stomach). Problems
with these muscles can lead to gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD).

This surgery can also be done during a hiatal hernia repair.

This article discusses anti-reflux surgery repair in children.

## Description

The most common type of anti-reflux surgery is called fundoplication. This
surgery most often takes 2 to 3 hours.

Your child will be given general anesthesia before the surgery. That means the
child will be asleep and unable to feel pain during the procedure.

The surgeon will use stitches to wrap the upper part of your child's stomach
around the end of the esophagus. This helps prevent stomach acid and food from
flowing back up.

A gastrostomy tube (g-tube) may be put in place if your child has had
swallowing or feeding problems. This tube helps with feeding and releases air
from your child's stomach.

Another surgery, called pyloroplasty may also be done. This surgery widens the
opening between the stomach and small intestine so the stomach can empty
faster.

This surgery may be done several ways, including:

      * Open repair -- The surgeon will make a large cut in the child's belly area (abdomen).
      * Laparoscopic repair -- The surgeon will make 3 to 5 small cuts in the belly. A thin, hollow tube with a tiny camera on the end (a laparoscope) is placed through one of these cuts. Other tools are passed through the other surgical cuts. 

The surgeon may need to switch to an open procedure if there is bleeding, a
lot of scar tissue from earlier surgeries, or if the child is very overweight.

Endoluminal fundoplication is similar to a laparoscopic repair, but the
surgeon reaches the stomach by going through the mouth. Small clips are used
to tighten the connection between the stomach and esophagus.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Anti-reflux surgery is usually done to treat GERD in children only after
medicines have not worked or complications develop. Your child's health care
provider may suggest anti-reflux surgery when:

      * Your child has symptoms of heartburn that get better with medicines, but you do not want your child to continue taking these medicines.
      * Symptoms of heartburn are burning in their stomach, throat, or chest, burping or gas bubbles, or problems swallowing food or fluids.
      * Part of your child's stomach is getting stuck in the chest or is twisting around itself.
      * Your child has a narrowing of the esophagus (called stricture) or bleeding in the esophagus.
      * Your child is not growing well or is failing to thrive.
      * Your child has a lung infection caused by breathing contents of the stomach into the lungs (called aspiration pneumonia).
      * GERD causes a chronic cough or hoarseness in your child. 

## Risks

Risks for any surgery include:

      * Bleeding
      * Infection 

Risks for anesthesia include:

      * Reactions to medicines
      * Breathing problems, including pneumonia
      * Heart problems 

Anti-reflux surgery risks include:

      * Damage to the stomach, esophagus, liver, or small intestine. This is very rare.
      * Gas and bloating that makes it hard to burp or throw up. Most of the time, these symptoms slowly get better.
      * Gagging.
      * Painful, difficult swallowing, called dysphagia. For most children, this goes away in the first 3 months after surgery.
      * Rarely, breathing or lung problems, such as a collapsed lung. 

## Before the Procedure

Always make sure your child's health care team knows about all the medicines
and supplements your child is taking, including those you bought without a
prescription.

A week before surgery, you may be asked to stop giving your child products
that affect blood clotting. This may include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil,
Motrin), vitamin E, and warfarin (Coumadin).

You will be told when to arrive at the hospital.

      * The child should not eat or drink anything after midnight before surgery.
      * You child may take a bath or shower the night before or the morning of surgery.
      * On the day of surgery, the child should take any medicine that the provider said to take with a small sip of water. 

## After the Procedure

How long your child stays in the hospital depends on how the surgery was done.

      * Children who have laparoscopic anti-reflux surgery usually stay in the hospital for 2 to 3 days.
      * Children who have open surgery may spend 2 to 6 days in the hospital.

Your child can start eating again about 1 to 2 days after surgery. Liquids are
usually given first.

Some children have a g-tube placed during surgery. This tube can be used for
liquid feedings, or to release gas from the stomach.

If your child did not have a g-tube placed, a tube may be inserted through the
nose to the stomach to help release gas. This tube is removed once your child
starts eating again.

Your child will be able to go home once they are eating food, have had a bowel
movement and are feeling better.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Heartburn and related symptoms should improve after anti-reflux surgery.
However, your child may still need to take medicines for heartburn after
surgery.

Some children will need another operation in the future to treat new reflux
symptoms or swallowing problems. This may happen if the stomach was wrapped
around the esophagus too tightly or it loosens.

The surgery may not be successful if the repair was too loose.

## Alternative Names

Fundoplication - children; Nissen fundoplication - children; Belsey (Mark IV)
fundoplication - children; Toupet fundoplication - children; Thal
fundoplication - children; Hiatal hernia repair - children; Endoluminal
fundoplication - children

## Patient Instructions

      * Anti-reflux surgery - children - discharge 
      * Anti-reflux surgery - discharge 
      * Gastroesophageal reflux - discharge
      * Heartburn - what to ask your doctor 

## References

Chun R, Noel RJ. Laryngopharyngeal and gastroesophageal reflux disease and
eosinophilic esophagitis. In: Lesperance MM, Flint PW, eds. _Cummings
Pediatric Otolaryngology_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 29.

Khan S, Matta SKR. Gastroesophageal reflux disease. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme
JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 349.

Kane TD, Brown MF, Chen MK; Members of the APSA New Technology Committee.
Position paper on laparoscopic antireflux operations in infants and children
for gastroesophageal reflux disease. American Pediatric Surgery Association.
_J Pediatr Surg_. 2009;44(5):1034-1040. PMID: 19433194
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19433194.

Yates RB, Oelschlager BK, Pellegrini CA. Gastroesophageal reflux disease and
hiatal hernia. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds.
_Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
42.

## Review Date 3/6/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![GERD](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GERD_thumb.jpg)GERD _Read more_

![Hiatal Hernia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HiatalHernia_thumb.jpg)Hiatal
Hernia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

