Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001137.htm    
                                Description: Hiatal hernia is a condition in which part of the stomach extends through an opening of the diaphragm into the chest. The diaphragm is the sheet of muscle that divides the chest from the abdomen.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hiatal hernia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001137.htm

# Hiatal hernia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hiatal hernia is a condition in which part of the stomach extends through an
opening of the diaphragm into the chest. The diaphragm is the sheet of muscle
that divides the chest from the abdomen.

## Causes

The exact cause of hiatal hernia is not known. The condition may be due to
weakness of the supporting tissue. Your risk for the problem goes up with age,
obesity, and smoking. Hiatal hernias are very common. The problem occurs often
in people over 50 years.

This condition may be linked toÂ reflux (backflow) of gastric acid from the
stomach into the esophagus.

Children with this condition are most often born with it (congenital). It
often occurs with gastroesophageal reflux in infants.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Chest pain
      * Heartburn, worse when bending over or lying down
      * Swallowing difficulty 

A hiatal hernia by itself rarely causes symptoms. Pain and discomfort are due
to the upward flow of stomach acid, air, or bile.

## Exams and Tests

Tests that may be used include:

      * Barium swallow x-ray
      * Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) 

## Treatment

The goals of treatment are to relieve symptoms and prevent complications.
Treatments may include:

      * Medicines to control stomach acid
      * Surgery to repair the hiatal herniaÂ and prevent reflux

Other measures to reduce symptoms include:

      * Avoiding large or heavy meals
      * Not lying down or bending over right after a meal
      * Reducing weight and not smoking
      * Raising the head of the bed 4 to 6 inches (10 to 15 centimeters)

If medicines and lifestyle measures do not help control symptoms, you may need
surgery.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Treatment can relieve most symptoms of hiatal hernia.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Pulmonary (lung) aspiration
      * Slow bleeding and iron deficiency anemia (due to a large hernia)
      * Strangulation (closing off) of the hernia 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

      * You have symptoms of a hiatal hernia.
      * You have a hiatal hernia and your symptoms get worse or do not improve with treatment.
      * You develop new symptoms. 

## Prevention

Controlling risk factors such as obesity may help prevent hiatal hernia.

## Alternative Names

Hernia - hiatal

## Patient Instructions

      * Anti-reflux surgery - discharge 

## Images

      * ![Hiatal hernia - X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1702t.jpg)Hiatal hernia - x-ray
      * ![Hiatal hernia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17070t.jpg)Hiatal hernia
      * ![Hiatal hernia repair - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7125t.jpg)Hiatal hernia repair - series

## References

Brady MF. Hiatal hernia. In: Ferri FF, ed. _Ferri's Clinical Advisor 2019_.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:663.e2-663.e5.

Falk GW, Katzka DA. Diseases of the esophagus. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 138.

Rosemurgy AS. Paraesophageal hernia. In: Cameron JL, Cameron AM, eds. _Current
Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:1534-1538.

Yates RB, Oelschlager BK, Pellegrini CA. Gastroesophageal reflux disease and
hiatal hernia. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds.
_Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
42.

## Review Date 3/26/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hiatal Hernia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HiatalHernia_thumb.jpg)Hiatal
Hernia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

