Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000415.htm    
                                Description: Polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) is an inflammatory disorder. It involves pain and stiffness in the shoulders and often the hips.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Polymyalgia rheumatica

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000415.htm

# Polymyalgia rheumatica

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) is an inflammatory disorder. It involves pain and
stiffness in the shoulders and often the hips.

## Causes

Polymyalgia rheumatica most often occurs in people over 50 years old. The
cause is unknown.

PMR may occur before or with giant cell arteritis (GCA; also called temporal
arteritis). This is a condition in which blood vessels that supply blood to
the head and eye become inflamed.

PMR can sometimes be hard to tell apart from rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in anÂ
older person. This occurs when tests for rheumatoid factor and anti-CCP
antibody are negative.

## Symptoms

The most common symptom is pain and stiffness in both shoulders and the neck.
The pain and stiffness are worse in the morning. This pain most often
progresses to the hips.

Fatigue is also present. People with this condition find it increasingly hard
to get out of bed and to move around.

Other symptoms include:

      * Appetite loss, which leads to weight loss
      * Depression
      * Fever

## Exams and Tests

Lab tests alone can't diagnose PMR. Most people with this condition have high
markers of inflammation, such as the sedimentation rate (ESR) and C-reactive
protein.

Other test results for this condition include:

      * Abnormal levels of proteins in the blood
      * Abnormal level of white blood cells
      * Anemia (low blood count) 

These tests may also be used to monitor your condition.

However, imaging tests such as x-rays of the shoulder or hips are not often
helpful. These tests may reveal joint damage that is not related to recent
symptoms. In difficult cases, ultrasound or MRI of the shoulder may be done.
These imaging tests often show bursitis or low levels of joint inflammation.Â

## Treatment

Without treatment, PMR does not get better. However, low doses of
corticosteroids (such as prednisone, 10 to 20 mg per day) can ease symptoms,
often within a day or two.

      * The dose should then be slowly reduced to a very low level.
      * Treatment needs to continue for 1 to 2 years. In some people, even longer treatment with low doses of prednisone is needed.

Corticosteroids can cause many side effects such as weight gain, development
of diabetes or osteoporosis. You need to be watched closely if you are taking
these medicines. If you are at risk for osteoporosis, your health care
provider may recommend you take medicines to prevent this condition.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

For most people, PMR goes away with treatment after 1 to 2 years. You might be
able to stop taking medicines after this point, but check with your provider
first.

For some people, symptoms return after they stop taking corticosteroids. In
these cases, another medicine such as methotrexate or tocilizumab may be
needed.

Giant cell arteritis may also be present or can develop later. If this is the
case, the temporal artery would need to be evaluated.

More severe symptoms can make it harder for you to work or take care of
yourself at home.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have weakness or stiffness in your shoulder and neck
that does not go away. Also contact your provider if you have new symptoms
such as fever, headache, and pain with chewing or loss of vision. These
symptoms may be from giant cell arteritis.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention.

## Alternative Names

PMR

## References

Dejaco C, Singh YP, Perel P, et al. 2015 recommendations for the management of
polymyalgia rheumatica: a European League Against Rheumatism/American College
of Rheumatology collaborative initiative. _Arthritis Rheumatol_.
2015;67(10):2569-2580. PMID: 2635874 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26352874.

Hellmann DB. Giant cell arteritis, polymyalgia rheumatica, and Takayasu's
arteritis. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC, Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds.
_Kelley and Firestein's Textbook of Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 88.

Kermani TA, Warrington KJ. Advances and challenges in the diagnosis and
treatment of polymyalgia rheumatica. _Ther Adv Musculoskelet Dis_.
2014;6(1):8-19. PMID: 24489611 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24489611.

Salvarani C, Ciccia F, Pipitone N. Polymyalgia rheumatica and giant cell
arteritis. In: Hochberg MC, Gravallese EM, Silman AJ, Smolen JS, Weinblatt ME,
Weisman MH, eds. _Rheumatology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap
166.

## Review Date 1/10/2019

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, MACR, ABIM Board Certified in
Rheumatology, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Polymyalgia
Rheumatica](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PolymyalgiaRheumatica_thumb.jpg)Polymyalgia
Rheumatica _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

