Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003509.htm    
                                Description: A qualitative HCG blood test checks if there is a hormone called human chorionic gonadotropin in your blood. HCG is a hormone produced in the body during pregnancy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

HCG blood test - qualitative

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003509.htm

# HCG blood test - qualitative

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A qualitative HCG blood test checks if there is a hormone called human
chorionic gonadotropin in your blood. HCG is a hormone produced in the body
during pregnancy.

Other HCG tests include:

      * HCG urine test
      * Quantitative pregnancy test (checks specific level of HCG in your blood) 

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed. This is most often taken from a vein. The procedure
is called a venipuncture.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing.

## Why the Test is Performed

Most often, this test is performed to determine if you are pregnant. HCG level
in the blood may also be high in women with certain types of ovarian tumors or
in men with testicular tumors.

## Normal Results

The test result will be reported as negative or positive.

      * The test is negative if you are not pregnant.
      * The test is positive if you are pregnant.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

If your blood HCG is positive and you DO NOT have a pregnancy properly
implanted in the uterus, it may indicate:

      * Ectopic pregnancy
      * Miscarriage
      * Testicular cancer (in men)
      * Trophoblastic tumor
      * Hydatidiform mole
      * Ovarian cancer

## Risks

Risks of having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

      * Excessive bleeding
      * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
      * Blood accumulating under the skin (hematoma)
      * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Considerations

False positive tests may occur when certain hormones are increased, such as
after menopause or when taking hormone supplements.

A pregnancy test is considered to be very accurate. When the test is negative
but pregnancy is still suspected, the test should be repeated in 1 week.

## Alternative Names

Beta-HCG in blood serum - qualitative; Human chorionic gonadotrophin - serum -
qualitative; Pregnancy test - blood - qualitative; Serum HCG - qualitative;
HCG in blood serum - qualitative

## Images

      * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Jeelani R, Bluth MH. Reproductive function and pregnancy. In: McPherson RA,
Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory
Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 25.

Yarbrough ML, Stout M, Gronowski AM. Pregnancy and its disorders. In: Rifai N,
ed. _Tietz Textbook of Clinical Chemistry and Molecular Diagnostics_. 6th ed.
St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2018:chap 69.  

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hormones](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hormones2_thumb.jpg)Hormones _Read
more_

![Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pregnancy2_thumb.jpg)Pregnancy
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

