Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003619.htm    
                                Description: This type of human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) test measures the specific level of HCG in the urine. HCG is a hormone produced in the body during pregnancy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

HCG in urine

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003619.htm

# HCG in urine

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

This type of human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) test measures the specific
level of HCG in the urine. HCG is a hormone produced in the body during
pregnancy.

Other HCG tests include:

      * HCG in blood serum -- qualitative
      * HCG in blood serum -- quantitative
      * Pregnancy test

## How the Test is Performed

To collect a urine sample, you urinate into a special (sterile) cup. Home
pregnancy tests require the test strip to be dipped into the urine sample or
passed through the urine stream while urinating. Carefully follow package
directions.

In most cases, a urine sample taken the first time you urinate in the morning
is best. This is when urine is the most concentrated and has enough HCG to be
detected.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves urinating into a cup or onto a test strip.

## Why the Test is Performed

Urine HCG tests are a common method of determining if a woman is pregnant. The
best time to test for pregnancy at home is after you miss your period.

## Normal Results

The test result will be reported as negative or positive.

      * The test is negative if you are not pregnant.
      * The test is positive if you are pregnant. 

A pregnancy test, including a properly performed home pregnancy test, is
considered to be very accurate. Positive results are more likely to be
accurate than negative results. When the test is negative but pregnancy is
still suspected, the test should be repeated in 1 week.

## Risks

There are no risks, except for false positive or false negative results.

## Alternative Names

Beta-HCG - urine; Human chorionic gonadotropin - urine; Pregnancy test - hCG
in urine

## Images

      * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
      * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

Jeelani R, Bluth MH. Reproductive function and pregnancy. In: McPherson RA,
Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory
Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 25.

Yarbrough ML, Stout M, Gronowski AM. Pregnancy and its disorders. In: Rifai N,
ed. _Tietz Textbook of Clinical Chemistry and Molecular Diagnostics_. 6th ed.
St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2018:chap 69.Â

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hormones](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hormones2_thumb.jpg)Hormones _Read
more_

![Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pregnancy2_thumb.jpg)Pregnancy
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

