Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001529.htm    
                                Description: Brief psychotic disorder is a sudden, short-term display of psychotic behavior, such as hallucinations or delusions, which occurs with a stressful event.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Brief psychotic disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001529.htm

# Brief psychotic disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Brief psychotic disorder is a sudden, short-term display of psychotic
behavior, such as hallucinations or delusions, which occurs with a stressful
event.

## Causes

Brief psychotic disorder is triggered by extreme stress, such as a traumatic
accident or loss of a loved one. It is followed by a return to the previous
level of function. The person may or may not be aware of the strange behavior.

This condition most often affects people in their 20s, 30s, and 40s. Those who
have personality disorders are at high risk of having a brief reactive
psychosis.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of brief psychotic disorder may include the following:

      * Behavior that is odd or out of character
      * False ideas about what is taking place (delusions)
      * Hearing or seeing things that aren't real (hallucinations)
      * Strange speech or language 

The symptoms are not due to alcohol or other drug use, and they last longer
than a day, but less than a month.

## Exams and Tests

A psychiatric evaluation can confirm the diagnosis. A physical exam and
laboratory testing can rule out medical illness as the cause of the symptoms.

## Treatment

By definition, psychotic symptoms go away on their own in less than 1 month.
In some cases, brief psychotic disorder can be the beginning of a more chronic
psychotic condition, such as schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder.
Antipsychotic drugs can help decrease or stop the psychotic symptoms.

Talk therapy may also help you cope with the emotional stress that triggered
the problem.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people with this disorder have a good outcome. Repeat episodes may occur
in response to stress.

## Possible Complications

As with all psychotic illnesses, this condition can severely disrupt your life
and possibly lead to violence and suicide.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with a mental health professional if you have symptoms
of this disorder. If you are concerned for your safety or for the safety of
someone else, call the local emergency number (such as 911) or go to the
nearest emergency room right away.

## Alternative Names

Brief reactive psychosis; Psychosis - brief psychotic disorder

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Schizophrenia spectrum and other psychotic
disorders. In: _American Psychiatric Association. Diagnostic and Statistical
Manual of Mental Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric
Publishing. 2013:87-122.

Freudenriech O, Brown HE, Holt DJ. Psychosis and schizophrenia. In: Stern TA,
Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General Hospital
Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 28.

## Review Date 3/26/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Psychotic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PsychoticDisorders_thumb.jpg)Psychotic
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

