Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001553.htm    
                                Description: Psychosis occurs when a person loses contact with reality. The person may:     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Psychosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001553.htm

# Psychosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Psychosis occurs when a person loses contact with reality. The person may:

      * Have false beliefs about what is taking place, or who one is (delusions)
      * See or hear things that are not there (hallucinations)

## Causes

Medical problems that can cause psychosis include:

      * Alcohol and certain illegal drugs, both during use and during withdrawal
      * Brain diseases, such as Parkinson disease, Huntington disease
      * Brain tumors or cysts
      * Dementia (including Alzheimer disease)
      * HIV and other infections that affect the brain
      * Some prescription drugs, such as steroids and stimulants
      * Some types of epilepsy
      * Stroke

Psychosis may also be found in:

      * Most people with schizophrenia
      * Some people with bipolar disorder (manic-depressive) or severe depression
      * Some personality disorders

## Symptoms

A person with psychosis may have any of the following:

      * Disorganized thought and speech
      * False beliefs that are not based on reality (delusions), especially unfounded fear or suspicion
      * Hearing, seeing, or feeling things that are not there (hallucinations)
      * Thoughts that "jump" between unrelated topics (disordered thinking) 

## Exams and Tests

Psychiatric evaluation and testing are used to diagnose the cause of the
psychosis.

Laboratory testing and brain scans may not be needed, but sometimes can help
pinpoint the diagnosis. Tests may include:

      * Blood tests for abnormal electrolyte and hormone levels
      * Blood tests for syphilis and other infections
      * Drug screens
      * MRI of the brain

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause of the psychosis. Care in a hospital is often
needed to ensure the person's safety.

Antipsychotic drugs, which reduce hallucinations and delusions and improve
thinking and behavior, are helpful.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does depends on the cause of the psychosis. If the cause can
be corrected, the outlook is often good. In this case, treatment with
antipsychotic medicine may be brief.

Some chronic conditions, such as schizophrenia, may need lifelong treatment
with antipsychotic drugs to control symptoms.

## Possible Complications

Psychosis can prevent people from functioning normally and caring for
themselves. Left untreated, people can sometimes harm themselves or others.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider or mental health professional if you or a
member of your family is losing contact with reality. If there is any concern
about safety, take the person to the emergency room to be seen by a doctor.

## Prevention

Prevention depends on the cause. For example, avoiding alcohol prevents
psychosis caused by alcohol use.

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Schizophrenia spectrum and other psychotic
disorders. In: American Psychiatric Association. _Diagnostic and Statistical
Manual of Mental Disorders._ 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric
Publishing. 2013:87-122.

Freudenriech O, Brown HE, Holt DJ. Psychosis and schizophrenia. In: Stern TA,
Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General Hospital
Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 28.

## Review Date 3/26/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Psychotic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PsychoticDisorders_thumb.jpg)Psychotic
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

