Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000933.htm    
                                Description: Major depression with psychotic features is a mental disorder in which a person has depression along with loss of touch with reality (psychosis).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Major depression with psychotic features

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000933.htm

# Major depression with psychotic features

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Major depression with psychotic features is a mental disorder in which a
person has depression along with loss of touch with reality (psychosis).

## Causes

The cause is unknown. A family or personal history of depression or psychotic
illness makes you more likely to develop this condition.

## Symptoms

People with psychotic depression have symptoms of depressionÂ and psychosis.

Psychosis is a loss of contact with reality. It usually includes:

      * Delusions: False beliefs about what is taking place or who one is
      * Hallucinations: Seeing or hearing things that aren't there 

The types of delusions and hallucinations are often related to your depressed
feelings. For example, some people may hear voices criticizing them, or
telling them that they don't deserve to live. The person may develop false
beliefs about their body, such as believing that they have cancer.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions about
your medical history and symptoms. Your answers and certain questionnaires can
help your provider diagnose this condition and determine how severe it may be.

Blood and urine tests, and possibly a brain scan may be done to rule out other
medical conditions with similar symptoms.

## Treatment

Psychotic depression requires immediate medical care and treatment.

Treatment usually involves antidepressant and antipsychotic medicine. You may
only need antipsychotic medicine for a short period of time.

Electroconvulsive therapy can help treat depression with psychotic symptoms.
However, medicine is usually tried first.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

This is a serious condition. You will needÂ immediate treatment and close
monitoring by a provider.

You may need to take medicine for a long time to prevent the depression from
coming back. Depression symptoms are more likely to return than psychotic
symptoms.

## Possible Complications

The risk for suicide is much higher in people with depression with psychotic
symptoms than in those without psychosis. You may need to stay in the hospital
if you have thoughts of suicide. The safety of other peopleÂ must also be
considered.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you are thinking about hurting yourself or others, call your local
emergency number (such as 911) right away. Or, go to the hospital emergency
room. DO NOT delay.

You can also call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255
(1-800-273-TALK), where you can receive free and confidential support anytime
day or night.

Call your provider right away if:

      * You hear voices that are not there.
      * You have frequent crying spells with little or no reason.
      * Your depression is disrupting work, school, or family life.
      * You think that your current medicines are not working or are causing side effects. Never change or stop any medicines without first talking to your provider. 

## Alternative Names

Psychotic depression; Delusional depression

## Images

      * ![Forms of depression](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19300t.jpg)Forms of depression

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Major depressive disorder. _Diagnostic and
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders: DSM-5_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA:
American Psychiatric Publishing; 2013:160-168.

Fava M, Ostergaard SD, Cassano P. Mood disorders: depressive disorders (major
depressive disorder). In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds.
_Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 29.

## Review Date 10/7/2018

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Depression](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Depression_thumb.jpg)Depression
_Read more_

![Psychotic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PsychoticDisorders_thumb.jpg)Psychotic
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

