Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000867.htm    
                                Description: After an illness, leaving the hospital is your next step toward recovery. Depending on your condition, you may be going home or to another facility for further care.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Leaving the hospital - your discharge plan

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000867.htm

# Leaving the hospital - your discharge plan

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

After an illness, leaving the hospital is your next step toward recovery.
Depending on your condition, you may be going home or to another facility for
further care.

Before you go, it is a good idea to create a list of things you will need once
you leave. This is called a discharge plan. Your health care providers at the
hospital will work on this plan with you and your family or friends. This plan
can help you get the right care after you leave and prevent a return trip to
the hospital.

## Where Will you go?

A social worker, nurse, doctor, or other provider will work with you on a
discharge plan. This person will help decide if you should go home or to
another facility. This may be a nursing home or rehabilitation (rehab) center.

The hospital will have a list of local facilities. You or your caregiver can
find and compare the nursing homes and rehab centers in your area at
Healthcare.gov -- www.healthcare.gov/find-provider-information. Check to see
if the facility is covered by your health plan.

If you can return home or to a friend or relative's house, you may still need
help doing certain things, such as:

      * Personal care, such as bathing, eating, dressing, and toileting
      * Household care, such as cooking, cleaning, laundry, and shopping
      * Health care, such as driving to appointments, managing medicines, and using medical equipment 

Depending on the type of help you need, family or friends may be able to
assist you. If you need a home health care aid, ask your discharge planner for
suggestions. You can also search for local programs and services. Here are
some sites that can help:

      * Family Care Navigator -- www.caregiver.org/family-care-navigator
      * Eldercare Locator -- eldercare.acl.gov/Public/Index.aspx

## What Will you Need?

If you will be going to your home or to another's home, your caregiver should
plan ahead for your arrival. Ask your discharge planner if you will need any
special equipment or supplies, such as:

      * Hospital bed
      * Wheelchair
      * Walker or cane
      * Shower chair
      * Portable toilet
      * Oxygen supply
      * Diapers
      * Disposable gloves
      * Bandages and dressing
      * Skin care items 

## Your Discharge Checklist

Your discharge planner will give you a list of instructions to follow after
leaving the hospital. Read them carefully to make sure you understand them.
Your caregiver should also read and understand the instructions.

Your plan should include the following:

      * A description of your medical problems, including any allergies.
      * A list of your all medicines and how and when to take them. Have your provider highlight any new medicines and any that need to be stopped or changed.
      * How and when to change bandages and dressings.
      * Dates and times of medical appointments. Make sure you have the names and phone numbers of any providers you will see.
      * Who to call if you have questions, problems, or have an emergency.
      * What you can and cannot eat. Do you need any special foods?
      * How active you can be. Can you climb stairs and carry things? 

Following your discharge plan can help you recover and prevent further
problems.

## References

Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality website. Taking care of myself: A
guide for when I leave the hospital. www.ahrq.gov/patients-
consumers/diagnosis-treatment/hospitals-clinics/goinghome/index.html. Updated
May 2018. Accessed August 23, 2018.

Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services website. Your discharge planning
checklist. www.medicare.gov/pubs/pdf/11376-discharge-planning-checklist.pdf.
Updated February 2017. Accessed August 23, 2018.

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Health Facilities
      * Rehabilitation

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

