Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000436.htm    
                                Description: When you no longer need the amount of care provided in the hospital, the hospital will begin the process to discharge you.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Choosing a skilled nursing and rehabilitation facility

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000436.htm

# Choosing a skilled nursing and rehabilitation facility

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

When you no longer need the amount of care provided in the hospital, the
hospital will begin the process to discharge you.

Most people hope to go straight home from the hospital after surgery or being
ill. But even if you and your health care provider planned for you to go home,
your recovery may be slower than expected. So, you may need to go to a skilled
nursing or rehabilitation facility.

Skilled nursing facilities provide care for people who are not yet able to
care for themselves at home. After your stay at the facility, you may be able
to return home and care for yourself.

## Plan Ahead

If your surgery is planned, discuss discharge arrangements with your providers
in the weeks beforehand. They can tell you whether going straight home will be
good for you.

If your stay in the hospital was not planned, you or your family should
discuss discharge arrangements with your provider as soon as possible during
your time in the hospital. Most hospitals have staff who coordinate discharge
planning.

Planning ahead helps ensure you can go to a place that provides high-quality
care and is located where you would like it to be. Keep in mind:

      * You should have more than one choice. If there is no bed available in the skilled facility that is your first choice, the hospital will need to transfer you to another qualified facility.
      * Make sure the hospital staff knows about the places you have chosen.
      * Have someone check if your health insurance will cover your stay at the facility. 

## Choosing the Right Facility for you

It is always a good idea to check out different skilled nursing facilities.
Visit two or three places and choose more than one facility where you would be
comfortable.

Things to consider when choosing a place:

      * Where the facility is located
      * How well it is decorated and maintained
      * What the meals are like 

Get answers to questions like:

      * Do they take care of many people with your medical problem? For example, if you had a hip replacement or stroke, how many people with your problem have they cared for? A good facility should be able to provide you with data that shows they give good quality care.
      * Do they have a pathway, or protocol, for taking care of people with your medical condition?
      * Do they have physical therapists who work at the facility?
      * Will you see the same one or two therapists most days?
      * Do they provide therapy every day, including Saturday and Sunday?
      * How long do the therapy sessions last?
      * If your primary care provider or surgeon does not visit the facility, will there be a provider in charge of your care?
      * Will staff take the time to train you and your family or caregivers about care you will need at home?
      * Will your health insurance cover all of your expenses? If not, what will and will not be covered? 

## Alternative Names

SNF; SAR; Sub-acute rehab

## References

Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services website. Skilled nursing facility
(SNF) care. www.medicare.gov/coverage/skilled-nursing-facility-snf-care.
Updated January 2015. Accessed July 23, 2019.

Gadbois EA, Tyler DA, Mor V. Selecting a skilled nursing facility for
postacute care: individual and family perspectives. _J Am Geriatr Soc_.
2017;65(11):2459-2465. PMID: 28682444 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28682444.

Skilled Nursing Facilities.org website. Learn about skilled nursing
facilities. www.skillednursingfacilities.org. Accessed May 31, 2019.

## Review Date 5/13/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update
07-23-19.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Health Facilities
      * Rehabilitation

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

