Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000435.htm    
                                Description: When you no longer need the amount of care provided in the hospital, the hospital will begin the process to discharge you.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Skilled nursing or rehabilitation facilities

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000435.htm

# Skilled nursing or rehabilitation facilities

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

When you no longer need the amount of care provided in the hospital, the
hospital will begin the process to discharge you.

Most people hope to go directly home from the hospital. Even if you and your
doctor planned for you to go home, your recovery may be slower than expected.
As a result, you may need to be transferred to a skilled nursing or
rehabilitation facility.

## Who Needs to Go to a Skilled Nursing or Rehabilitation Facility?

Your health care provider may determine that you no longer need the amount of
care provided in the hospital, but you need more care than you and your loved
ones can manage at home.

Before you can go home from the hospital, you should be able to:

      * Safely use your cane, walker, crutches, or wheelchair.
      * Get in and out of a chair or bed without needing much help, or more help than you would have available
      * Move safely between your sleeping area, bathroom, and kitchen.
      * Go up and down stairs, if there is no way to avoid them in your home. 

Other factors may also prevent you from going directly home from the hospital,
such as:

      * Not enough help at home
      * Because of where you live, you need to be stronger or more mobile before going home
      * Medical problems, such as diabetes, lung problems, and heart problems, that are not well controlled
      * Medicines that cannot safely be given at home
      * Surgical wounds that need frequent care 

Common medical problems that often lead to skilled nursing or rehabilitation
facility care include:

      * Joint replacement surgery, such as for the knees, hips, or shoulders
      * Long stays in the hospital for any medical problem
      * Stroke or other brain injury 

If you can, plan ahead and learn how to choose the best facility for you.

## What Happens During Your Stay?

At the skilled nursing facility, a doctor will supervise your care. Other
trained health care providers will help you regain your strength and ability
to care for yourself:

      * Registered nurses will care for your wound, give you the right medicines, and monitor other medical problems.
      * Physical therapists will teach you how to make your muscles stronger. They may help you learn how to get up from and sit down safely onto a chair, toilet, or bed. They may also help you relearn to climb steps and keep your balance. You may be taught to use a walker, cane, or crutches.
      * Occupational therapists will teach you the skills you need to do everyday tasks at home.
      * Speech and language therapists will evaluate and treat problems with swallowing, speaking, and understanding.

## References

Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services website. Skilled nursing facility
(SNF) care. www.medicare.gov/coverage/skilled-nursing-facility-snf-care.
Updated January 2015. Accessed July 23, 2019.

Gadbois EA, Tyler DA, Mor V. Selecting a skilled nursing facility for
postacute care: individual and family perspectives. _J Am Geriatr Soc_.
2017;65(11):2459-2465. PMID: 28682444 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28682444.

Skilled Nursing Facilities.org. Learn about skilled nursing facilities.
www.skillednursingfacilities.org. Accessed May 23, 2019.

## Review Date 5/8/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update
07-23-19.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Health Facilities
      * Rehabilitation

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

