Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001165.htm    
                                Description: Ovarian overproduction of androgens is a condition in which the ovaries make too much testosterone. This leads to the development of male characteristics in a woman. Androgens from other parts of the body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ovarian overproduction of androgens

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001165.htm

# Ovarian overproduction of androgens

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ovarian overproduction of androgens is a condition in which the ovaries make
too much testosterone. This leads to the development of male characteristics
in a woman. Androgens from other parts of the body can also cause male
characteristics to develop in women.

## Causes

In healthy women, the ovaries and adrenal glands produce about 40% to 50% of
the body's testosterone. Tumors of the ovaries and polycystic ovary syndrome
(PCOS) can both causeÂ too muchÂ androgen production.

Cushing disease is a problem with the pituitary gland thatÂ leads toÂ excess
amounts of corticosteroids. Corticosteroids cause masculine body changes in
women. Tumors in the adrenal glands can also cause too much production of
androgens and can lead to male body characteristics in women.

## Symptoms

High levels of androgens in a female can cause:

      * Acne
      * Changes in female body shape
      * Decrease in breast size
      * Increase in body hair in a male pattern, such as on the face, chin, and abdomen
      * Lack of menstrual periods (amenorrhea)
      * Oily skin 

These changes may also occur:

      * Increase in the size of the clitoris
      * Deepening of the voice
      * Increase in muscle mass
      * Thinning hair and hair loss at the front of the scalp on both sides of the head

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical exam. Any blood and imaging
tests ordered will depend on your symptoms, but may include:

      * 17-hydroxyprogesterone test
      * ACTH test (unusual)
      * Cholesterol blood tests
      * CT scan
      * DHEA blood test
      * Glucose test
      * Insulin test
      * Pelvic ultrasound
      * Prolactin test (if periods come less often or not at all)
      * Testosterone test (both free and total testosterone)
      * TSH test (if there is hair loss) 

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the problem that is causing the increased androgen
production. Medicines can be given to decrease hair production in women with
excess body hair, or to regulate menstrual cycles. In some cases, surgery may
be needed to remove an ovarian or adrenal tumor.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Treatment success depends on the cause of excess androgen production. If the
condition is caused by an ovarian tumor, surgery to remove the tumor may
correct the problem. Most ovarian tumors are not cancerous (benign) and will
not come back after they have been removed.

In polycystic ovary syndrome, the following measures can reduce symptoms
caused by high androgen levels:

      * Careful monitoring
      * Weight loss
      * Dietary changes
      * Medicines
      * Regular vigorous exercise 

## Possible Complications

Infertility and complications during pregnancy may occur.

Women with polycystic ovary syndrome may be at increased risk for:

      * Diabetes
      * High blood pressure
      * High cholesterol
      * Obesity
      * Uterine cancer

## Prevention

Women who have polycystic ovary syndrome can reduce their changes of long-term
complications by maintaining a normal weight through healthy diet and regular
exercise.

## Images

      * ![Overproductive ovaries](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17112t.jpg)Overproductive ovaries
      * ![Follicle development](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23231t.jpg)Follicle development

## References

Bulun SE. Physiology and pathology of the female reproductive axis. In: Melmed
S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 17.

Gibson M, Huddleston HG. Polycystic ovary syndrome and hirsutism. In: Kliegman
RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 552.

Lobo RA. Hyperandrogenism and androgen excess: physiology, etiology,
differential diagnosis, management. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM,
Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 40.

Rosenfield RL, Barnes RB, Ehrmann DA. Hyperandrogenism, hirsutism, and
polycystic ovary syndrome. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al,
eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 133.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AdrenalGlandNew_thumb.jpg)Adrenal Gland
Disorders _Read more_

![Ovarian
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OvarianDisorders2_thumb.jpg)Ovarian
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

