Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002219.htm    
                                Description: The adrenal glands are two small triangle-shaped glands. One gland is located on top of each kidney.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Adrenal glands

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002219.htm

# Adrenal glands

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The adrenal glands are two small triangle-shaped glands. One gland is located
on top of each kidney.

## Information

Each adrenal gland is about the size of the top part of the thumb. The outer
part of the gland is called the cortex. It produces steroid hormones such as
cortisol, aldosterone, and hormones that can be changed into testosterone. The
inner part of the gland is called the medulla. It produces epinephrine and
norepinephrine. These hormones are also called adrenaline and noradrenaline.

When the glands produce more or less hormones than normal, you can become
sick. This might happen at birth or later in life.

The adrenal glands can be affected by many diseases, such as autoimmune
disorders, infections, tumors, and bleeding.

The pituitary, a small gland at the bottom of the brain, releases a hormone
called ACTH that is important in stimulating the adrenal cortex.

Conditions related to adrenal gland problems include:

      * Addison disease (also called adrenal insufficiency) -- disorder that occurs when the adrenal glands do not produce enough hormones
      * Congenital adrenal hyperplasia \-- disorder in which the adrenal glands lack an enzyme needed to make hormones
      * Cushing syndrome \-- disorder that occurs when the body has a high level of the hormone cortisol
      * Diabetes caused by another medical problem
      * Glucocorticoid medicines
      * Excessive or unwanted hair in women (hirsutism)
      * Hump behind shoulders (dorsocervical fat pad)
      * Hypoglycemia \-- low blood sugar
      * Primary aldosteronism (Conn syndrome) -- disorder in which the adrenal gland releases too much of the hormone aldosterone
      * Waterhouse-Friderichsen syndrome \-- collection of symptoms resulting from failure of the adrenal glands to function normally as a result of bleeding into the gland

## Images

      * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
      * ![Adrenal glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8720t.jpg)Adrenal glands
      * ![Adrenal gland biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8718t.jpg)Adrenal gland biopsy

## References

Friedman TC. Adrenal gland. In: Benjamin IJ, Griggs RC, Wing EJ, Fitz JG, eds.
_Andreoli and Carpenter's Cecil Essentials of Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 64.

Standring S. Suprarenal (adrenal) gland. In: Standring S, ed. _Gray's
Anatomy_. 41st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 71.

Stewart PM, Newell-Price JDC. The adrenal cortex. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS,
Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 15.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, Associate Professor of Medicine, Division of
Metabolism, Endocrinology & Nutrition, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AdrenalGlandNew_thumb.jpg)Adrenal Gland
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

