Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000411.htm    
                                Description: Congenital adrenal hyperplasia is the name given toÂ a group of inherited disorders of the adrenal gland.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Congenital adrenal hyperplasia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000411.htm

# Congenital adrenal hyperplasia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Congenital adrenal hyperplasia is the name given toÂ a group of inherited
disorders of the adrenal gland.

## Causes

People have 2 adrenal glands. One is located on top of each of their kidneys.
These glands make hormones, such as cortisol and aldosterone,Â that are
essential for life. People with congenital adrenal hyperplasia lack an enzyme
the adrenal glands need to make the hormones.

At the same time, the body produces more androgen, a type of male sex hormone.
This causes male characteristics to appear early (or inappropriately).

Congenital adrenal hyperplasia can affect both boys and girls. About 1 in
10,000 to 18,000 children are born with congenital adrenal hyperplasia.

## Symptoms

Symptoms will vary, depending on the type of congenital adrenal hyperplasia
someone has, and their age when the disorder is diagnosed.

      * Children with milder forms may not have signs or symptoms of congenital adrenal hyperplasia and may not be diagnosed until as late as adolescence.
      * Girls with a more severe form often have abnormal genitals at birth and may be diagnosed before symptoms appear.
      * Boys will appear normal at birth, even if they have a more severe form. 

In children with the more severe form of the disorder, symptoms often develop
within 2 or 3 weeks after birth.

      * Poor feeding or vomiting
      * Dehydration
      * Electrolyte changes (abnormal levels of sodium and potassium in the blood)
      * Abnormal heart rhythm 

Girls with the milder form will usually have normal female reproductive organs
(ovaries, uterus, and fallopian tubes). They may also have the following
changes:

      * Abnormal menstrual periods or failure to menstruate
      * Early appearance of pubic or armpit hair
      * Excessive hair growth or facial hair
      * Some enlargement of the clitorisÂ 

Boys with the milderÂ form often appear normalÂ at birth. However, they may
appear to enter puberty early. Symptoms may include:

      * Deepening voice
      * Early appearance of pubic or armpit hair
      * Enlarged penis but normal testesÂ 
      * Well-developed muscles 

Both boys and girls will be tall as children, but much shorter than normal as
adults.

Â

## Exams and Tests

Your child's health care provider will order certain tests. Common blood tests
include:

      * Serum electrolytes
      * Aldosterone
      * Renin
      * Cortisol

X-ray of the left hand and wrist may show that the child's bones appear to be
those of someone older than their actual age.

Genetic tests can help diagnose or confirm the disorder, but they are rarely
needed.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to return hormone levels to normal, or near normal.
This is done by taking a form of cortisol, most often hydrocortisone. People
may need additional doses of medicine during times of stress, such as severe
illness or surgery.

The provider will determine the genetic sex of the baby with abnormal
genitalia by checking the chromosomes (karyotyping). Girls with male-looking
genitals may have surgeryÂ of their genitalia during infancy.

Steroids used to treat congenital adrenal hyperplasia do not usually cause
side effects such as obesity or weak bones, because the doses replaceÂ the
hormones thatÂ the child's bodyÂ cannot make. It is important for parents to
report signs of infection and stress toÂ their child's provider because the
child may need more medicine. Steroids cannot be stopped suddenly because
doing so may lead to adrenal insufficiency.

## Support Groups

These organizations may be helpful:

      * National Adrenal Diseases Foundation: www.nadf.us/
      * The MAGIC Foundation: www.magicfoundation.org
      * The CARES Foundation: www.caresfoundation.org
      * Adrenal Insufficiency United:Â aiunited.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People with this disorder must take medicine their entire life. They most
often have good health. However, they may be shorter thanÂ normal adults, even
with treatment.

In most cases, congenital adrenal hyperplasia does not affect fertility.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * High blood pressure
      * Low blood sugar
      * Low sodium 

## Prevention

Parents with a family history of congenital adrenal hyperplasia (of any type)
or a child who has the condition should consider genetic counseling.

Prenatal diagnosis is available for some forms of congenital adrenal
hyperplasia. Diagnosis is made in the first trimester by chorionic villus
sampling. Diagnosis in the second trimester is made by measuring hormones such
as 17-hydroxyprogesterone in the amniotic fluid.

A newborn screening test is available for the most common form of congenital
adrenal hyperplasia. It can be done on heel stick blood (as part of the
routine screenings done on newborns). This test is currently performed in most
states.

## Alternative Names

Adrenogenital syndrome; 21-hydroxylase deficiency; CAH

## Images

      * ![Adrenal glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8720t.jpg)Adrenal glands

## References

White PC. Congenital adrenal hyperplasia and related disorders. In: Kliegman
RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 576.

Yau M, Khattab A, Pina C, Yuen T, Meyer-Bahlburg HFL, New MI. Defects of
andrenal steroidogenesis. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al,
eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 104.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AdrenalGlandNew_thumb.jpg)Adrenal Gland
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

