Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000330.htm    
                                Description: Hyperaldosteronism is a disorder in which the adrenal gland releases too much of the hormone aldosterone into the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Primary and secondary hyperaldosteronism

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000330.htm

# Primary and secondary hyperaldosteronism

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hyperaldosteronism is a disorder in which the adrenal gland releases too much
of the hormone aldosterone into the blood.

Hyperaldosteronism can be primary or secondary.

## Causes

Primary hyperaldosteronism is due to a problem of the adrenal glands
themselves, which causes them to release too much aldosterone.

In contrast, with secondary hyperaldosteronism, a problem elsewhere in the
body causes the adrenal glands to release too much aldosterone. These problems
can be with genes, diet, or a medical disorder such as with the heart, liver,
kidneys, or high blood pressure.

Most cases of primary hyperaldosteronism are caused by a noncancerous (benign)
tumor of the adrenal gland. The condition mostly affects people 30 to 50 years
old and is a common cause of high blood pressure in middle age.

## Symptoms

Primary and secondary hyperaldosteronism have common symptoms, including:

      * High blood pressure
      * Low level of potassium in the blood
      * Feeling tired all the time
      * Headache 
      * Muscle weakness 
      * Numbness

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
symptoms.Â

Tests that may be ordered to diagnose hyperaldosteronism include:

      * Abdominal CT scan
      * ECG
      * Blood aldosterone level
      * Blood renin activity
      * Blood potassium level
      * Urinary aldosterone
      * Kidney ultrasound

A procedure to insert a catheter into the veins of the adrenal glands may need
to be done. This helps check which of the two adrenal glands is making too
much aldosterone. This test is important because many people have small benign
tumors in the adrenal glands that do not secrete any hormones. Relying only on
a CT scan may result in the wrong adrenal gland being removed.

## Treatment

Primary hyperaldosteronism caused by an adrenal gland tumor is usually treated
with surgery. It can sometimes be treated with medicines. Removing the adrenal
tumor may control the symptoms. Even after surgery, some people still have
high blood pressure and need to take medicine. But often, the number of
medicines or doses can be lowered.

Limiting salt intake and taking medicine may control the symptoms without
surgery. Medicines to treat hyperaldosteronism include:

      * Drugs that block the action of aldosterone
      * Diuretics (water pills), which help manage fluid buildup in the body 

Secondary hyperaldosteronism is treated with medicines (as described above)
and limiting salt intake. Surgery is usually not used.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook for primary hyperaldosteronism is good with early diagnosis and
treatment.

The outlook for secondary hyperaldosteronism depends on the cause of the
condition.

## Possible Complications

Primary hyperaldosteronism can cause very high blood pressure, which can
damage many organs, including the eyes, kidneys, heart and brain.

Erection problems and gynecomastia (enlarged breasts in men) may occur with
long-term use of medicines to block the effect of hyperaldosteronism.Â

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if you develop symptoms of
hyperaldosteronism.

## Alternative Names

Conn syndrome; Mineralocorticoid excess

## Images

      * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
      * ![Adrenal gland hormone secretion](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8719t.jpg)Adrenal gland hormone secretion

## References

Carey RM, Padia SH. Primary mineralocorticoid excess disorders and
hypertension. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds.
_Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 108.

Nieman LK. Adrenal cortex. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 214.

## Review Date 7/16/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/ Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AdrenalGlandNew_thumb.jpg)Adrenal Gland
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

