Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003717.htm    
                                Description: DHEA stands for dehydroepiandrosterone. It is a weak male hormone (androgen) produced by the adrenal glands in both men and women. The DHEA-sulfate test measures the amount of DHEA-sulfate in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

DHEA-sulfate test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003717.htm

# DHEA-sulfate test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

DHEA stands for dehydroepiandrosterone. It is a weak male hormone (androgen)
produced by the adrenal glands in both men and women. The DHEA-sulfate test
measures the amount of DHEA-sulfate in the blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary. However, tell your health care provider
if you are taking any vitamins or supplements that contain DHEA or DHEA-
sulfate.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or sting. Afterward, there may be some throbbing or a
slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to check the function of the two adrenal glands. One of
these glands sits above each kidney. They are one of the major sources of
androgens in women.

Although DHEA-sulfate is the most abundant hormone in the body, its exact
function is still not known.

      * In men, the male hormone effect may not be important if testosterone level is normal.
      * In women, DHEA contributes to normal libido and sexual satisfaction.
      * DHEA may also have effects on the immune system. 

The DHEA-sulfate test is often done in women who show signs of having excess
male hormones. Some of these signs are male body changes, excess hair growth,
oily skin, acne, irregular periods, or problems becoming pregnant.

It may also be done in women who are concerned about low libido or decreased
sexual satisfaction who have pituitary or adrenal gland disorders.

The test is also done in children who are maturing too early (precocious
puberty).

## Normal Results

Normal blood levels of DHEA-sulfate can differ by sex and age.

Typical normal ranges for females are:

      * Ages 18 to 19: 145 to 395 micrograms per deciliter (Âµg/dL) orÂ 3.92 to 10.66 micromoles per liter (Âµmol/L)
      * Ages 20 to 29: 65 to 380 Âµg/dLÂ or 1.75 to 10.26 Âµmol/L
      * Ages 30 to 39: 45 to 270 Âµg/dL or 1.22 to 7.29 Âµmol/L
      * Ages 40 to 49: 32 to 240 Âµg/dLÂ or 0.86 to 6.48 Âµmol/L
      * Ages 50 to 59: 26 to 200 Âµg/dL or 0.70 to 5.40 Âµmol/L
      * Ages 60 to 69: 13 to 130 Âµg/dL or 0.35 to 3.51 Âµmol/L
      * Ages 69 and older: 17 to 90 Âµg/dLÂ or 0.46 to 2.43 Âµmol/L

Typical normal ranges for males are:

      * Ages 18 to 19: 108 to 441 Âµg/dLÂ or 2.92 to 11.91 Âµmol/L
      * Ages 20 to 29: 280 to 640 Âµg/dLÂ or 7.56 to 17.28 Âµmol/L
      * Ages 30 to 39: 120 to 520 Âµg/dL or 3.24 to 14.04 Âµmol/L
      * Ages 40 to 49: 95 to 530 Âµg/dLÂ or 2.56 to 14.31 Âµmol/L
      * Ages 50 to 59: 70 to 310 Âµg/dLÂ or 1.89 to 8.37 Âµmol/L
      * Ages 60 to 69: 42 to 290 Âµg/dL or 1.13 to 7.83 Âµmol/L
      * Ages 69 and older: 28 to 175 Âµg/dLÂ or 0.76 to 4.72 Âµmol/L

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different specimens. Talk to your health
care provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An increase in DHEA-sulfate may be due to:

      * A common genetic disorder called congenital adrenal hyperplasia.
      * A tumor of the adrenal gland, which can be benign or be a cancer.
      * A common problem in women younger than 50, called polycystic ovary syndrome.
      * Body changes of a girl in puberty happening earlier than normal. 

A decrease in DHEA sulfate may be due to:

      * Adrenal gland disorders that produce lower than normal amounts of adrenal hormones, including adrenal insufficiency and Addison disease
      * The pituitary gland not producing normal amounts of its hormones (hypopituitarism)
      * Taking glucocorticoid medicines 

DHEA levels normally decline with age in both men and women. There is no
reliable evidence that taking DHEA supplements prevents aging-related
conditions.

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken.Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be more difficult than
from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

      * Excessive bleeding
      * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
      * Multiple punctures to locate veins
      * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
      * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Serum DHEA-sulfate; Dehydroepiandrosterone-sulfate test; DHEA-sulfate - serum

## References

Haddad NG, Eugster EA. Precocious puberty. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de
Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 121.

Nakamoto J. Endocrine testing. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et
al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 154.

Rosenfield RL, Barnes RB, Ehrmann DA. Hyperandrogenism, hirsutism, and
polycystic ovary syndrome. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al,
eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 133.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AdrenalGlandNew_thumb.jpg)Adrenal Gland
Disorders _Read more_

![Ovarian Cysts](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OvarianCyst2_thumb.jpg)Ovarian
Cysts _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

