Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003713.htm    
                                Description: 17-OH progesterone is a blood test that measures the amount of 17-OH progesterone. This is a hormone produced by the adrenal glands and sex glands.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

17-OH progesterone

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003713.htm

# 17-OH progesterone

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

17-OH progesterone is a blood test that measures the amount of 17-OH
progesterone. This is a hormone produced by the adrenal glands and sex glands.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed. Most of the time, blood is drawn from a vein located
on the inside of the elbow or the back of the hand.

In infants or young children, a sharp tool called a lancet may be used to
puncture the skin.

      * The blood collects in a small glass tube called a pipette, or onto a slide or test strip. 
      * A bandage is put over the spot to stop any bleeding.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Many medicines can interfere with blood test results.

      * Your health care provider will tell you if you need to stop taking any medicines before you have this test.
      * Do not stop or change your medicines without talking to your provider first.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel slight pain or a sting when the needle is inserted. You may also
feel some throbbing at the site after the blood is drawn.

## Why the Test is Performed

The main use of this test is to check infants for an inherited disorder that
affects the adrenal gland, called congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH). It is
often done on infants who are born with outer genitals that do not clearly
look like those of a boy or a girl.

This test is also used to identify people who develop symptoms of CAH later in
life, a condition called nonclassical adrenal hyperplasia.

AÂ provider may recommend this test for women or girls who have male traits
such as:

      * Excess hair growth in places where adult men grow hair
      * Deep voice or an increase in muscle mass
      * Absence of menses
      * Infertility

## Normal Results

Normal and abnormal values differ for babies born with low birth weight. In
general, normal results are as follows:

      * Babies more than 24 hours old - less than 400 to 600 nanograms per deciliter (ng/dL) or 12.12 to 18.18 nanomoles per liter (nmol/L)
      * Children before puberty around 100 ng/dL or 3.03 nmol/L
      * Adults - less than 200 ng/dL or 6.06 nmol/L

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

The examples above show the common measurements for results of these tests.
Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A high level of 17-OH progesterone may be due to:

      * Tumors of the adrenal gland
      * Congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH)

In infants with CAH, the 17-OHP level ranges from 2,000Â to 40,000 ng/dL or
60.6 to 1212 nmol/L. In adults, a level greater than 200 ng/dL or 6.06 nmol/L
may be due to nonclassical adrenal hyperplasia.

## Considerations

YourÂ provider may suggest an ACTH test if 17-OH progesterone level is between
200Â to 800 ng/dLÂ or 6.06 to 24.24 nmol/L.

## Alternative Names

17-hydroxyprogesterone; Progesterone - 17-OH

## References

Guber HA, Farag AF. Evaluation of endocrine function. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 24.

Rey RA, Josso N. Diagnosis and treatment of disorders of sexual development.
In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult
and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 119.

White PC. Congenital adrenal hyperplasia and related disorders. In: Kliegman
RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook
of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 594.

## Review Date 3/28/2019

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AdrenalGlandNew_thumb.jpg)Adrenal Gland
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

