Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003245.htm    
                                Description: Dry hair is hair that does not have enough moisture and oil to maintain its normal sheen and texture.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dry hair

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003245.htm

# Dry hair

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Dry hair is hair that does not have enough moisture and oil to maintain its
normal sheen and texture.

## Causes

Some causes of dry hair are:

      * Anorexia
      * Excessive hair washing, or using harsh soaps or alcohols
      * Excessive blow-drying
      * Dry air due to the climate
      * Menkes kinky hair syndrome
      * Malnutrition
      * Underactive parathyroid (hypoparathyroidism)
      * Underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism)
      * Other hormone abnormalities 

## Home Care

At home you should:

      * Shampoo less frequently, perhaps only once or twice a week
      * Use gentle shampoos that are sulfate free
      * Add conditioners
      * Avoid blow drying and harsh styling products 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

      * Your hair does not improve with gentle treatment
      * You have hair loss or breaking hairs
      * You have any other unexplained symptoms 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your doctor will perform a physical examination and may ask the following
questions:

      * Has your hair always been slightly dry?
      * When did the unusual hair dryness first start?
      * Is it always present, or is it off and on?
      * What are your eating habits?
      * What kind of shampoo do you use?
      * How often do you wash your hair?
      * Do you use a conditioner? What type?
      * How do you normally style your hair?
      * Do you use a hair dryer? What type? How often?
      * What other symptoms are also present? 

Diagnostic tests that may be performed include:

      * Examination of the hair under a microscope
      * Blood tests
      * Scalp biopsy 

## Alternative Names

Hair - dry

## References

American Academy of Dermatology website. Tips for healthy hair.
www.aad.org/public/everyday-care/hair-scalp-care/hair/healthy-hair-tips.
Accessed January 21, 2020.

Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW. Skin, hair, and nails.
In: Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW, eds. _Seidel's Guide
to Physical Examination_. 9th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2019:chap 9.

Habif TP. Hair diseases. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical Dermatology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 24.

## Review Date 10/8/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update
on 01/21/20.

![Hair Loss](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hairproblems_thumb.jpg)Hair
Problems _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

