Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000823.htm    
                                Description: Folliculitis is inflammation of one or more hair follicles. It can occur anywhere on the skin.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Folliculitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000823.htm

# Folliculitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Folliculitis is inflammation of one or more hair follicles. It can occur
anywhere on the skin.

## Causes

Folliculitis starts when hair follicles are damaged or when the follicle is
blocked. For example, this may occur from rubbing against clothing or shaving.
Most of the time, the damaged follicles become infected with staphylococci
(staph) bacteria.

Barber's itch is a staph infection of the hair follicles in the beard area,
usually the upper lip. Shaving makes it worse. Tinea barbae is similar to
barber's itch, but the infection is caused by a fungus.

Pseudofolliculitis barbae is a disorder that occurs mainly in African American
men. If curly beard hairs are cut too short, they may curve back into the skin
and cause inflammation.

Folliculitis can affect people of all ages.

## Symptoms

Common symptoms include a rash, itching, and pimples or pustules near a hair
follicle in the neck, groin, or genital area. The pimples may crust over.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider can diagnose this condition by looking at your
skin.Â Lab tests may show which bacteria or fungus is causing the infection.

## Treatment

Hot, moist compresses may help drain the affected follicles.

Treatment may include antibiotics applied to the skin or taken by mouth, or an
antifungal medicine.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Folliculitis often responds well to treatment, but it may come back.

## Possible Complications

Folliculitis may return or spread to other body areas.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Apply home treatment and call your provider if your symptoms:

      * Come back often
      * Get worse
      * LastÂ longer than 2 or 3 days

## Prevention

To prevent further damage to the hair follicles and infection:

      * Reduce friction from clothing.
      * Avoid shaving the area, if possible. If shaving is necessary, use a clean, new razor blade or an electric razor each time.
      * Keep the area clean.
      * Avoid contaminated clothing and washcloths.

## Alternative Names

Pseudofolliculitis barbae; Tinea barbae; Barber's itch

## Images

      * ![Folliculitis - decalvans on the scalp](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2423t.jpg)Folliculitis - decalvans on the scalp
      * ![Folliculitis on the leg](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2425t.jpg)Folliculitis on the leg

## References

Chen CM, Phelps RG. Folliculitis. In: Lebwohl MG, Heymann WR, Berth-Jones J,
Coulson IH, eds. _Treatment of Skin Disease: Comprehensive Therapeutic
Strategies_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier, 2018:chap 85.

Hsiao JL, Leslie KS, McMichael AJ, Curtis AR, Guzman-Sanchez D. Folliculitis
and other follicular disorders. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds.
_Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 38.

## Review Date 10/8/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hair Loss](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hairproblems_thumb.jpg)Hair
Problems _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

