Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001449.htm    
                                Description: Trichorrhexis nodosa is a common hair problem in which thickened or weak points (nodes) along the hair shaft cause your hair to break off easily.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Trichorrhexis nodosa

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001449.htm

# Trichorrhexis nodosa

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Trichorrhexis nodosa is a common hair problem in which thickened or weak
points (nodes) along the hair shaft cause your hair to break off easily.

## Causes

Trichorrhexis nodosa can be an inherited condition.

The condition may be triggered by things such as blow-drying, ironing the
hair, over-brushing, perming, or excessive chemical use.

In some cases, trichorrhexis nodosa is caused by an underlying disorder,
including very rare ones, such as:

      * Thyroid not making enough thyroid hormone (hypothyroidism)
      * Buildup of ammonia in the body (argininosuccinic aciduria)
      * Iron deficiency
      * Menkes syndrome (Menkes kinky hair syndrome)
      * Group of conditions in which there is abnormal development of the skin, hair, nails, teeth, or sweat glands (ectodermal dysplasia)
      * Trichothiodystrophy (inherited disorder that causes brittle hair, skin problems, and intellectual disability)
      * Biotin deficiency (inherited disorder in which the body is not able to use biotin, a substance needed for hair growth)

## Symptoms

Your hair may break easily or it may appear like it is not growing.

In African Americans, looking at the scalp area using a microscope shows that
the hair breaks off at the scalp area before it grows long.

In other people, the problem often appears at the end of a hair shaft in the
form of split ends, thinning hair, and hair tips that look white.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine your hair and scalp. Some of your hairs
will be checked under a microscope or with a special magnifier used by skin
doctors.

Blood tests may be ordered to check for anemia, thyroid disease, and other
conditions.

## Treatment

If you have a disorder that is causing trichorrhexis nodosa, it will be
treated if possible.

Your provider may recommend measures to reduce damage to your hair such as:

      * Gentle brushing with a soft brush instead of aggressive brushing or ratting
      * Avoiding harsh chemicals such as those used in straightening compounds and perms
      * Not using a very hot hair dryer for long periods and not ironing the hair
      * Using a gentle shampoo and a hair conditioner 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Improving grooming techniques and avoiding products that damage hair will help
correct the problem.

This condition is not dangerous, but may affect a person's self-esteem.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if symptoms do not improve with changes in grooming and
other home-care measures.

## Alternative Names

Hair shaft fracture; Brittle hair; Fragile hair; Hair breakage

## Images

      * ![Hair follicle anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9703t.jpg)Hair follicle anatomy

## References

James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Diseases of the skin
appendages. In: James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM, eds.
_Andrews' Diseases of the Skin_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 33.

Restrepo R, Calonje E. Diseases of the hair. In: Calonje E, Brenn T, Lazar AJ,
Billings SD, eds. _McKee's Pathology of the Skin_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 22.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hair Loss](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hairproblems_thumb.jpg)Hair
Problems _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

