Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001411.htm    
                                Description: Friedreich ataxia is a rare disease passed down through families (inherited). It affects the muscles and heart.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Friedreich ataxia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001411.htm

# Friedreich ataxia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Friedreich ataxia is a rare disease passed down through families (inherited).
It affects the muscles and heart.

## Causes

Friedreich ataxia is caused by a defect in a gene called frataxin (FXN).
Changes in this gene cause the body to make too much of a part of DNA called
trinucleotide repeat (GAA). Normally, the body contains about 8 to 30 copies
of GAA. People with Friedreich ataxia have as many as 1,000 copies. The more
copies of GAA a person has, the earlier in life the disease starts and the
faster it gets worse.

Friedreich ataxia is an autosomal recessive genetic disorder. This means you
must get a copy of the defective gene from both your mother and father.

## Symptoms

Symptoms are caused by the wearing away of structures in areas of the brain
and spinal cord that control coordination, muscle movement, and other
functions. Symptoms most often begin before puberty. Symptoms may include:

      * Abnormal speech
      * Changes in vision, particularly color vision
      * Decrease in ability to feel vibrations in lower limbs
      * Foot problems, such as hammer toe and high arches
      * Hearing loss, this occurs in about 10% of people
      * Jerky eye movements
      * Loss of coordination and balance, which leads to frequent falls
      * Muscle weakness
      * No reflexes in the legs
      * Unsteady gait and uncoordinated movements (ataxia), which gets worse with time 

Muscle problems lead to changes in the spine. This may result in scoliosis or
kyphoscoliosis.

Heart disease most often develops and may lead to heart failure. Heart failure
or dysrhythmias that do not respond to treatment may result in death. Diabetes
may develop in later stages of the disease.

## Exams and Tests

The following tests may be done:

      * ECG
      * Electrophysiological studies
      * EMG (electromyography)
      * Genetic testing
      * Nerve conduction tests
      * Muscle biopsy
      * X-ray, CT scan, or MRI of the head
      * X-ray of the chest
      * X-ray of the spine

Blood sugar (glucose) tests may show diabetes or glucose intolerance. An eye
exam may show damage to the optic nerve, which most often occurs without
symptoms.

## Treatment

Treatment for Friedreich ataxia includes:

      * Counseling
      * Speech therapy
      * Physical therapy
      * Walking aids or wheelchairs 

Orthopedic devices (braces) may be needed for scoliosis and foot problems.
Treating heart disease and diabetes help people live longer and improve their
quality of life.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Friedreich ataxia slowly gets worse and causes problems doing everyday
activities. Most people need to use a wheelchair within 15 years of the
disease's start. The disease may lead to early death.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Diabetes
      * Heart failure or heart disease
      * Loss of ability to move around 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if symptoms of Friedreich ataxia occur,
especially if there is a family history of the disorder.

## Prevention

People with a family history of Friedreich ataxia who intend to have children
may want to consider genetic screening to determine their risk.

## Alternative Names

Friedreich's ataxia; Spinocerebellar degeneration

## Images

      * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Mink JW. Movement disorders. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 597.

Warner WC, Sawyer JR. Scoliosis and kyphosis. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale
ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 44.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Friedreich's
Ataxia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FriedreichsAtaxia_thumb.jpg)Friedreich's
Ataxia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

