Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007188.htm    
                                Description: People often DO NOT consider heart disease a woman    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heart disease and women

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007188.htm

# Heart disease and women

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

People often DO NOT consider heart disease a woman's disease. Yet
cardiovascular disease is the leading killer of women over age 25. It kills
nearly twice as many women in the United States as all types of cancer.

Men have a greater risk for heart disease earlier in life than women. Women's
risk increases after menopause.

EARLY HEART DISEASE SIGNS

Women may have warning signs that go unnoticed for weeks or even years before
a heart attack occurs.

      * Men most often have the "classic" heart attack signs: tightness in the chest, arm pain, and shortness of breath.
      * Women's symptoms can resemble those of men.
      * Women may also complain of other symptoms, such as nausea, fatigue, indigestion, anxiety, and dizziness. 

ACT IN TIME

Recognizing and treating a heart attack right away improves your chance for
survival. On average, a person having a heart attack will wait for 2 hours
before calling for help.

Know the warning signs and always call 911 within 5 minutes of when symptoms
begin. By acting quickly, you can limit damage to your heart.

MANAGE YOUR RISK FACTORS

A risk factor is something that increases your chance of getting a disease or
having a certain health condition. You can change some risk factors for heart
disease. Other risk factors you cannot change.

Women should work with their health care provider to address risk factors they
can change.

      * Use lifestyle measures to keep your blood cholesterol levels in the right range. Targets for cholesterol levels vary, depending on your risk factors. Ask your provider which targets are best for you.
      * Keep your blood pressure in a healthy range. Your ideal blood pressure level will depend on your risk factors. Discuss your target blood pressure with your provider. 

Estrogen is no longer used to prevent heart disease in women of any age.
Estrogen may increase the risk of heart disease for older women. However, it
may still be used for some women to treat hot flashes or other medical
problems.

      * Estrogen use is probably safest for women under age 60.
      * It should be used for the shortest possible period of time.
      * Only women who have a low risk for stroke, heart disease, blood clots, or breast cancer should take estrogen. 

Some women (especially those with heart disease) can take a low dose aspirin
daily to help prevent heart attacks. Some women will be advised to low dose
aspirin to prevent stroke. Aspirin can increase the risk for bleeding, so
check with your provider before beginning daily aspirin treatment.

LIVE A HEALTHY LIFESTYLE

Some of the risk factors for heart disease that you CAN change are:

      * DO NOT smoke or use tobacco.
      * Get plenty of exercise. Women who need to lose or keep off weight should get at least 60 to 90 minutes of moderate-intensity exercise on most days. To maintain your health, get at least 30 minutes of exercise a day, preferably at least 5 days a week.
      * Maintain a healthy weight. Women should strive for a body mass index (BMI) of between 18.5 and 24.9 and a waist smaller than 35 inches (90 cm).
      * Get checked and treated for depression, if necessary.
      * Women with high cholesterol or triglyceride levels may benefit from omega-3 fatty acid supplements. 

If you drink alcohol, limit yourself to no more than one drink per day. DO NOT
drink just for the purpose of protecting your heart.

Good nutrition is important to your heart health, and it will help control
some of your heart disease risk factors.

![Healthy diet](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19492.jpg)

      * Eat a diet that is rich in fruits, vegetables, and whole grains.
      * Choose lean proteins, such as chicken, fish, beans, and legumes.
      * Eat low-fat dairy products, such as skim milk and low-fat yogurt.
      * Avoid sodium (salt) and fats found in fried foods, processed foods, and baked goods.
      * Eat fewer animal products that contain cheese, cream, or eggs.
      * Read labels, and stay away from "saturated fat" and anything that contains "partially-hydrogenated" or "hydrogenated" fats. These products are most often high in unhealthy fats. 

## Alternative Names

CAD - women; Coronary artery disease - women

## Images

      * ![Heart, section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
      * ![Heart, front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view
      * ![Acute MI](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17004t.jpg)Acute MI
      * ![Healthy diet](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19492t.jpg)Healthy diet

## References

Fihn SD, Blankenship JC, Alexander KP, et al. 2014 ACC/AHA/AATS/PCNA/SCAI/STS
focused update of the guideline for the diagnosis and management of patients
with stable ischemic heart disease: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines, and
the American Association for Thoracic Surgery, Preventive Cardiovascular
Nurses Association, Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions,
and Society of Thoracic Surgeons. _Circulation_. 2014;130(19):1749-1767. PMID:
25070666 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25070666.

Gulati M, Bairey Merz CN. Cardiovascular disease in women. In: Zipes DP, Libby
P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 89.

Hansson GK, Hamsten A. Atherosclerosis, thrombosis, and vascular biology. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 70.

Hodis HN, Mack WJ, Henderson VW, et al; ELITE Research Group. Vascular effects
of early versus late postmenopausal treatment with estradiol. _N Engl J Med_.
2016;374(13):1221-1231. PMID: 27028912 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27028912.

Meschia JF, Bushnell C, Boden-Albala B, et al; American Heart Association
Stroke Council; Council on Cardiovascular and Stroke Nursing; Council on
Clinical Cardiology; Council on Functional Genomics and Translational Biology;
Council on Hypertension. Guidelines for the primary prevention of stroke: a
statement for healthcare professionals from the American Heart
Association/American Stroke Association. _Stroke_. 2014;45(12):3754-3832.
PMID: 25355838 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25355838.

Mosca L, Benjamin EJ, Berra K,Â et al. Effectiveness-based guidelines for the
prevention of cardiovascular disease in women--2011 update: A guideline from
the American Heart Association. _Circulation_. 2011;123(11):1243-1262. PMID:
21325087 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21325087.Â  

Ridker PM, Libby P, Buring JE. Risk markers and the primary prevention of
cardiovascular disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli
GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular
Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 45.

Smith SC Jr, Benjamin EJ, Bonow RO, et al. AHA/ACCF secondary prevention and
risk reduction therapy for patients with coronary and other atherosclerotic
vascular disease: 2011 update: a guideline from the American Heart Association
and American College of Cardiology Foundation endorsed by the World Heart
Federation and the Preventive Cardiovascular Nurses Association. _J Am Coll
Cardiol_. 2011;58(23):2432-2446. PMID: 22055990
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22055990.

The NAMS Hormone Therapy Position Statement Advisory Panel. The 2017 hormone
therapy position statement of The North American Menopause Society Menopause.
2017;24(7):728-753. PMID: 28650869 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28650869.

## Review Date 6/18/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart Disease in
Women](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartDiseaseinWomen_thumb.jpg)Heart
Disease in Women _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

