Link: https://medlineplus.gov/valleyfever.html    
                                Description: Valley Fever is a disease caused by a fungus called Coccidioides. You get it from inhaling the spores of the fungus.Â It&#39;s most common in older adults.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Valley Fever

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/valleyfever.html

#  Valley Fever

Also called: Coccidioidomycosis

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Symptoms
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Valley Fever is a disease caused by a fungus (or mold) called Coccidioides.
The fungi live in the soil of dry areas like the southwestern U.S. You get it
from inhaling the spores of the fungus. The infection cannot spread from
person to person.

Anyone can get Valley Fever. But it's most common among older adults,
especially those 60 and older. People who have recently moved to an area where
it occurs are at highest risk for infection. Other people at higher risk
include

    * Workers in jobs that expose them to soil dust. These include construction workers, agricultural workers, and military forces doing field training.
    * African Americans and Asians
    * Women in their third trimester of pregnancy
    * People with weak immune systems

Valley Fever is often mild, with no symptoms. If you have symptoms, they may
include a flu-like illness, with fever, cough, headache, rash, and muscle
aches. Most people get better within several weeks or months. A small number
of people may develop a chronic lung or widespread infection.

Valley Fever is diagnosed by testing your blood, other body fluids, or
tissues. Many people with the acute infection get better without treatment. In
some cases, doctors may prescribe antifungal drugs for acute infections.
Severe infections require antifungal drugs.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Start Here

    * Valley Fever (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Valley Fever (Coccidioidomycosis) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Symptoms

    * Symptoms of Valley Fever (Coccidioidomycosis) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Chest X-Ray ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Fungal Culture Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Valley Fever (Coccidioidomycosis) Risk and Prevention (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Treatment for Valley Fever (Coccidioidomycosis) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Paracoccidioidomycosis (Merck & Co., Inc.) Also in Spanish

## Statistics and Research

    * Valley Fever (Coccidioidomycosis) Statistics (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Coccidioidomycosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Design and evaluation of an AFLP molecular marker for the detection...
    * Article: Surveillance for Coccidioidomycosis - United States, 2011-2017.
    * Article: Communicating Risk for a Climate-Sensitive Disease: A Case Study of Valley...
    * Valley Fever -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
    * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Patient Handouts

    * Coccidioides complement fixation (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Coccidioides precipitin (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Coccidioidomycosis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * CSF coccidioides complement fixation (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Valley Fever](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ValleyFever.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Chest x-ray
    * Coccidioides complement fixation
    * Coccidioides precipitin
    * Coccidioidomycosis
    * CSF coccidioides complement fixation

## Related Health Topics

    * Fungal Infections
    * Molds

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Valley Fever is the National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 23 September 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

