Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003317.htm    
                                Description: A cloudy cornea is a loss of transparency of the cornea.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cloudy cornea

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003317.htm

# Cloudy cornea

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A cloudy cornea is a loss of transparency of the cornea.

## Causes

The cornea makes up the front wall of the eye. It is normally clear. It helps
focus the light entering the eye.

Causes of cloudy cornea include:

      * Inflammation
      * Sensitivity to non-infectious bacteria or toxins
      * Infection
      * Keratitis
      * Trachoma
      * River blindness
      * Corneal ulcers
      * Swelling (edema)
      * Acute glaucoma
      * Birth injury
      * Fuchs dystrophy
      * Dryness of the eye due to Sjogren syndrome, vitamin A deficiency, or LASIK eye surgery
      * Dystrophy (inherited metabolic disease)
      * Keratoconus
      * Injury to the eye, including chemical burns and welding injury
      * Tumors or growths on the eye
      * Pterygium
      * Bowen disease 

Clouding may affect all or part of the cornea. It leads to different amounts
of vision loss. You may not have any symptoms in the early stages.

## Home Care

Consult your health care provider. There is no appropriate home care.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if:

      * The outer surface of the eye appears cloudy.
      * You have trouble with your vision.

Note: You will need to see an ophthalmologist for vision or eye problems.
However, your primary provider may also be involved if the problem could be
due to a whole-body (systemic) disease.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will examine your eyes and ask about your medical history. The
two main questions will be if your vision is affected and if you have seen a
spot on the front of your eye.

Other questions may include:

      * When did you first notice this?
      * Does it affect both eyes?
      * Do you have trouble with your vision?
      * Is it constant or intermittent?
      * Do you wear contact lenses?
      * Is there any history of injury to the eye?
      * Has there been any discomfort? If so, is there anything that helps?

Tests may include:

      * Biopsy of lid tissue
      * Computer mapping of the cornea (corneal topography)
      * Schirmer's test for eye dryness
      * Special photographs to measure the cells of the cornea
      * Standard eye exam
      * Ultrasound to measure corneal thickness 

## Alternative Names

Corneal opacification; Corneal scarring; Corneal edema

## Images

      * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye
      * ![Cloudy cornea](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9197t.jpg)Cloudy cornea

## References

Guluma K, Lee JE. Ophthalmology. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 61.

Kataguiri P, Kenyon KR, Batta P, Wadia HP, Sugar J. Corneal and external eye
manifestations of systemic disease. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds.
_Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 4.25.

Patel SS, Goldstein DA. Episcleritis and scleritis. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS,
eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 4.11.

Yanoff M, Cameron JD. Diseases of the visual system In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 423.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Corneal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CornealDisorders_thumb.jpg)Corneal
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

