Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001032.htm    
                                Description: The cornea is the clear tissue at the front of the eye. A corneal ulcer is an open sore in the outer layer of the cornea. It is often caused by infection. At first, a corneal ulcer may seem like conjunctivitis,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Corneal ulcers and infections

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001032.htm

# Corneal ulcers and infections

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The cornea is the clear tissue at the front of the eye. A corneal ulcer is an
open sore in the outer layer of the cornea. It is often caused by infection.
At first, a corneal ulcer may seem like conjunctivitis, or pink eye.

## Causes

Corneal ulcers are most commonly caused by an infection with bacteria,
viruses, fungi, or a parasite.

      * Acanthamoeba keratitis occurs in contact lens users. It is more likely to happen in people who make their own homemade cleaning solutions.
      * Fungal keratitis can occur after a corneal injury involving plant material. It may also occur in people with a suppressed immune system.
      * Herpes simplex keratitis is a serious viral infection. It may cause repeated attacks that are triggered by stress, exposure to sunlight, or any condition that lowers the immune response. 

Corneal ulcers or infections may also be caused by:

      * Eyelids that do not close all the way, such as with Bell palsy
      * Foreign bodies in the eye
      * Scratches (abrasions) on the eye surface
      * Severely dry eyes
      * Severe allergic eye disease
      * Various inflammatory disorders 

Wearing contact lenses, especially soft contacts that are left in overnight,
may cause a corneal ulcer.

![Corneal injury](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200050t.gif)Watch
this video about:Corneal injury

## Symptoms

Symptoms of infection or ulcers of the cornea include:

      * Blurry or hazy vision
      * Eye that appears red or bloodshot
      * Itching and discharge
      * Sensitivity to light (photophobia)
      * Very painful and watery eyes
      * White patch on the cornea 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider may do the following tests:

      * Exam of scrapings from the ulcer
      * Fluorescein stain of the cornea
      * Keratometry (measuring the curve of the cornea)
      * Pupillary reflex response
      * Refraction test
      * Slit-lamp examination
      * Tests for dry eye
      * Visual acuity

Blood tests to check for inflammatory disorders may also be needed.

## Treatment

Treatment for corneal ulcers and infections depends on the cause. Treatment
should be started as soon as possible to prevent scarring of the cornea.

If the exact cause is not known, you may be given antibiotic drops that work
against many kinds of bacteria.

Once the exact cause is known, you may be given drops that treat bacteria,
herpes, other viruses, or a fungus. Severe ulcers sometimes require a corneal
transplant.

Corticosteroid eye drops may be used to reduce swelling and inflammation in
certain conditions.

Your provider may also recommend that you:

      * Avoid eye makeup.
      * DO NOT wear contact lenses at all, especially while asleep.
      * Take pain medicines.
      * Wear protective glasses.Â 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Many people recover completely and have only a minor change in vision.
However, a corneal ulcer or infection can cause long-term damage and affect
vision.

## Possible Complications

Untreated corneal ulcers and infections may lead to:

      * Loss of the eye (rare)
      * Severe vision loss
      * Scars on the cornea

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You have symptoms of corneal ulcers or an infection.
      * You have been diagnosed with this condition and your symptoms become worse after treatment.
      * Your vision is affected.
      * You develop eye pain that is severe or becoming worse.
      * Your eyelids or the skin around your eyes becomes swollen or red.
      * You have a headache in addition to your other symptoms.

## Prevention

Things you can do to prevent the condition include:

      * Wash your hands well when handling your contact lenses.
      * Avoid wearing contact lenses overnight.
      * Get prompt treatment for an eye infection to prevent ulcers from forming. 

## Alternative Names

Bacterial keratitis; Fungal keratitis; Acanthamoeba keratitis; Herpes simplex
keratitis

## Images

      * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye

## References

Aronson JK. Contact lenses and solutions. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side
Effects of Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier B.V.; 2016:580-581.

Keenan JD, McLeod SD. Bacterial keratitis. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds.
_Ophthalmology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 4.12.

Keenan JD, McLeod SD. Fungal keratitis. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds.
_Ophthalmology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 4.13.

Lin A, Bouchard CS. Noninfectious keratitis. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds.
_Ophthalmology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 4.17.

Soukiasian SH. Peripheral ulcerative keratitis. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds.
_Ophthalmology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 4.16.

Tuli SS, Kubal AA. Herpes simplex keratitis. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds.
_Ophthalmology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 4.15.

Yanoff M, Cameron JD. Diseases of the visual system. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 423.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Corneal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CornealDisorders_thumb.jpg)Corneal
Disorders _Read more_

![Eye
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeInfectionsNew_thumb.jpg)Eye
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

