Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001017.htm    
                                Description: Corneal injury is a wound to the part of the eye known as the cornea. The cornea is the crystal clear (transparent) tissue that covers the front of the eye. It works with the lens of the eye to focus images    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Corneal injury

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001017.htm

# Corneal injury

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Corneal injury is a wound to the part of the eye known as the cornea. The
cornea is the crystal clear (transparent) tissue that covers the front of the
eye. It works with the lens of the eye to focus images on the retina.

## Causes

Injuries to the cornea are common.

Injuries to the outer surface may be due to:

      *  **Abrasions:** Includes scratches or scrapes on the surface of the cornea
      *  **Chemical injuries:** Caused by almost any fluid that gets into the eye
      *  **Contact lens problems:** Overuse, poor fit, or sensitivity to contact lens care solutions
      *  **Foreign bodies:** Exposure to something in the eye such as sand or dust
      *  **Ultraviolet injuries:** Caused by sunlight, sun lamps, snow or water reflections, or arc-welding 

Infections may also damage the cornea.

You are more likely to develop a corneal injury if you:

      * Are exposed to sunlight or artificial ultraviolet light for long periods of time
      * Have ill-fitting contact lenses or overuse your contact lenses
      * Have very dry eyes
      * Work in a dusty environment
      * Use a hammer or power tools without wearing safety glasses 

High-speed particles, such as chips from hammering metal on metal, may get
stuck in the surface of the cornea. Rarely, they may penetrate deeper into the
eye.

![Corneal injury](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200050t.gif)Watch
this video about:Corneal injury

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Blurred vision
      * Eye pain or stinging and burning in the eye
      * Feeling like something is in your eye (may be caused by a scratch or something in your eye)
      * Light sensitivity
      * Redness of the eye
      * Swollen eyelids
      * Watery eyes or increased tearing 

## Exams and Tests

You will need to have a complete eye test. The health care provider may use
eye drops called fluorescein dye to help look for injuries.

Tests may include:

      * Standard ophthalmic exam
      * Slit lamp examination

## Treatment

First aid for eye emergencies:

      * DO NOT try to remove an object that is stuck in your eye without professional medical help.
      * If chemicals are splashed in the eye, IMMEDIATELY flush the eye with water for 15 minutes. The person should be quickly taken to the nearest emergency room. 

Anyone with severe eye pain needs to be seen in an emergency care center or
examined by an ophthalmologist right away.

Treatment for corneal injuries may involve:

      * Removing foreign material from the eye
      * Wearing an eye patch or temporary bandage contact lens
      * Using eye drops or ointments prescribed by the doctor
      * Not wearing contact lenses until the eye has healed
      * Taking pain medicines 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most of the time, injuries that affect only the surface of the cornea heal
very quickly with treatment. The eye should be back to normal within 2 days.

Injuries that penetrate the cornea are much more serious. The outcome depends
on the specific injury.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if the injury is not better after 2 days of
treatment.

## Prevention

Things you can do to prevent corneal injuries include:

      * Wear safety goggles at all times when using hand or power tools or chemicals, during high impact sports, or during other activities where you may get an eye injury.
      * Wear sunglasses that screen ultraviolet light when you are exposed to sunlight or are in the vicinity of arc welding. Wear this type of sunglasses even during the winter.
      * Be careful when using household cleaners. Many household products contain strong chemicals. Drain and oven cleaners are very dangerous. They can lead to blindness if not used properly. 

## Alternative Names

Abrasion - corneal; Scratch - corneal; Eye pain - corneal

## Images

      * ![Cornea](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9909t.jpg)Cornea

## References

Guluma K, Lee JE. Ophthalmology. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 61.

Knoop KJ, Dennis WR. Ophthalmologic procedures. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB,
Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency
Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 62.

Rao NK, Goldstein MH. Acid and alkali burns. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds.
_Ophthalmology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 4.26.

Yanoff M, Cameron JD. Diseases of the visual system. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 423.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Corneal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CornealDisorders_thumb.jpg)Corneal
Disorders _Read more_

![Eye Injuries](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeInjuries_thumb.jpg)Eye
Injuries _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

