Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007295.htm    
                                Description: Fuchs    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fuchs dystrophy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007295.htm

# Fuchs dystrophy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fuchs' (pronounced "fooks") dystrophy is an eye disease in which cells lining
the inner surface of the cornea slowly start to die off. The disease most
often affects both eyes.

## Causes

Fuchs' dystrophy can be inherited, which means it can be passed down from
parents to children. If either of your parents has the disease, you have a 50%
chance of developing the condition.

However, the condition may also occur in people without a known family history
of the disease.

Fuchs' dystrophy is more common in women than in men. Vision problems DO NOT
appear before age 50 years in most cases. However, a health care provider may
be able to see signs of the disease in affected people by their 30s or 40s.

Fuchs' dystrophy affects the thin layer of cells that lines the back part of
the cornea. These cells help pump excess fluid out of the cornea. As more and
more cells are lost, fluid begins to build up in the cornea, causing swelling
and a cloudy cornea.

At first, fluid may build up only during sleep, when the eye is closed. As the
disease gets worse, small blisters may form. The blisters get bigger and may
eventually break. This causesÂ eye pain. Fuchs' dystrophy can also cause the
shape of the cornea to change, leading to more vision problems.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Eye pain
      * Eye sensitivity to light and glare
      * Foggy or blurred vision, at first only in the mornings
      * Seeing colored halos around lights
      * Worsening vision throughout the day 

## Exams and Tests

A provider can diagnose Fuchs' dystrophy during a slit-lamp exam.

OtherÂ tests that may be done include:

      * Pachymetry -- measures the thickness of the cornea
      * Specular microscope examination -- allows the provider to look at the thin layer of cells that line the back part of the cornea
      * Visual acuity test

## Treatment

Eye drops or ointments that draw fluid out of the cornea are used to relieve
symptoms of Fuchs' dystrophy.

If painful sores develop on the cornea, soft contact lenses or surgery to
create flaps over the sores may help reduce pain.

The only cure for Fuchs' dystrophy is a corneal transplant.

Until recently, the most common type of corneal transplant was penetrating
keratoplasty. During this procedure, a small round piece of the cornea is
removed, leaving an opening in the front of the eye. A matching piece of
cornea from a human donor is then sewn into the opening in the front of the
eye.

A newer technique called endothelial keratoplasty (DSEK, DSAEK, or DMEK) has
become the preferred option for people with Fuchs' dystrophy. In this
procedure, only the inner layers of the cornea are replaced, instead of all
the layers. This leads to a faster recovery and fewer complications. Stitches
are most often not needed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Fuchs' dystrophy gets worse over time. Without a corneal transplant, a person
with severe Fuchs' dystrophy may become blind or have severe pain and very
reduced vision.

Mild cases of Fuchs' dystrophy often worsen after cataract surgery. A cataract
surgeon will evaluate this risk and may modify the technique or the timing of
your cataract surgery.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

      * Eye pain
      * Eye sensitivity to light
      * The feeling that something is in your eye when there is nothing there
      * Vision problems such as seeing halos or cloudy vision
      * Worsening vision 

## Prevention

There is no known prevention. Avoiding cataract surgery or taking special
precautions during cataract surgery may delay the need for a corneal
transplant.

## Alternative Names

Fuchs' dystrophy; Fuchs' endothelial dystrophy; Fuchs' corneal dystrophy

## References

Bowling B. Cornea. In: Bowling B, ed. _Kanski's Clinical Ophthalmology_. 8th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 6.

Folberg R. The eye. In: Kumar V, Abbas AK, Aster JC, eds. _Robbins and Cotran
Pathologic Basis of Disease_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 29.

Rosado-Adames N, Afshari NA. Diseases of the corneal endothelium. In: Yanoff
M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 4.21.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Corneal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CornealDisorders_thumb.jpg)Corneal
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

