Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001013.htm    
                                Description: Keratoconus is an eye disease that affects the structure of the cornea. The cornea is the clear tissue that covers the front of the eye.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Keratoconus

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001013.htm

# Keratoconus

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Keratoconus is an eye disease that affects the structure of the cornea. The
cornea is the clear tissue that covers the front of the eye.

With this condition, the shape of the cornea slowly changes shape from round
to a cone shape. It also gets thinner and the eye bulges out. This causes
vision problems. In most people, these changes continue to get worse.

## Causes

The cause is unknown. It is likely that the tendency to develop keratoconus is
present from birth. The condition may be due to a defect in collagen. This is
the tissue that provides the shape and strength to the cornea.

Allergy and eye rubbing may speed up the damage.

There is a link between keratoconus and Down syndrome.

## Symptoms

The earliest symptom is a slight blurring of vision that cannot be corrected
with glasses. (Vision can most often be corrected to 20/20 with rigid, gas-
permeable contact lenses.) Over time, you may see halos, have glare, or other
night vision problems.

Most people who develop keratoconus have a history of being nearsighted. The
nearsightedness tends to become worse over time. As the problem gets worse,
astigmatism develops and may worsen over time.

Keratoconus is often discovered during the teenage years. It may also develop
in older people.

## Exams and Tests

The most accurate test for this problem is called corneal topography, which
creates a map of the curve of the cornea.

A slit-lamp exam of the cornea can diagnose the disease in the later stages.

A test called pachymetry can be used to measure the thickness of the cornea.

## Treatment

Contact lenses are the main treatment for most patients with keratoconus. The
lenses may provide good vision, but they do not treat or stop the condition.
For people with the condition, wearing sunglasses outdoors after being
diagnosed may help slow or prevent the progress of the disease. For many
years, the only surgical treatment has been corneal transplantation.

The following newer technologies may delay or prevent the need for corneal
transplantation:

      *  **High-frequency radio energy (conductive keratoplasty)** changes the shape of the cornea so contact lenses fit better.
      *  **Corneal implants (intracorneal ring segments)** change the shape of the cornea so contact lenses fit better
      *  **Corneal collagen cross-linking** is a treatment that causes the cornea to become stiff. In most cases, it prevents the condition from getting worse. It may then be possible to reshape the cornea with laser vision correction.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In most cases, vision can be corrected with rigid gas-permeable contact
lenses.

If corneal transplantation is needed, results are very often good. However,
the recovery period can be long. Many people still need contact lenses after
the surgery.

## Possible Complications

If left untreated, the cornea may thin to the point where a hole develops in
the thinnest part.

There is a risk of rejection after a cornea transplant, but the risk is much
lower than with other organ transplants.

You should not have laser vision correction (such as LASIK) if you have any
degree of keratoconus. Corneal topography is done beforehand to rule out
people with this condition.

In rare cases, other laser vision correction procedures, such as PRK, may be
safe for people with mild keratoconus. This may be more possible in people who
have had corneal collagen cross-linking.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Young people whose vision cannot be corrected to 20/20 with glasses should be
checked by an eye doctor familiar with keratoconus. Parents with keratoconus
should consider having their children screened for the disease starting at age
10.

## Prevention

There is no way to prevent this condition. Most health care providers believe
that people should take steps to control allergies and avoid rubbing their
eyes.

## Alternative Names

Vision changes - keratoconus

## Images

      * ![Cornea](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9909t.jpg)Cornea

## References

Hersh PS, Stulting RD, Muller D, Durrie DS, Rajpal RK; United States
Crosslinking Study Group. United States Multicenter Clinical Trial of Corneal
Collagen Crosslinking for Keratoconus Treatment. _Ophthalmology_.
2017;124(9):1259-1270. PMID: 28495149Â www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28495149.

Kojima T, Primack JD, Azar DT. Intrastromal corneal ring segments and collagen
crosslinking. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 3.9.

Sugar J, Batta P. Keratoconus and other ectasias. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds.
_Ophthalmology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 4.18.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Corneal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CornealDisorders_thumb.jpg)Corneal
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

