Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003845.htm    
                                Description: This is a test that uses orange dye (fluorescein) and a blue light to detect foreign bodies in the eye. This test can also detect damage to the cornea. The cornea is the outer surface of the eye.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fluorescein eye stain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003845.htm

# Fluorescein eye stain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

This is a test that uses orange dye (fluorescein) and a blue light to detect
foreign bodies in the eye. This test can also detect damage to the cornea. The
cornea is the outer surface of the eye.

## How the Test is Performed

A piece of blotting paper containing the dye is touched to the surface of your
eye. You are asked to blink. Blinking spreads the dye and coats the tear film
covering the surface of the cornea. The tear film contains water, oil, and
mucus to protect and lubricate the eye.

The health care provider then shines a blue light at your eye. Any problems on
the surface of the cornea will be stained by the dye and appear green under
the blue light.

The provider can determine the location and likely cause of the cornea problem
depending on the size, location, and shape of the staining.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You will need to remove your eyeglasses or contact lenses before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

If your eyes are very dry, the blotting paper may be slightly scratchy. The
dye may cause a mild and brief stinging sensation.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is to:

      * Find scratches or other problems with the surface of the cornea 
      * Reveal foreign bodies on the eye surface 
      * Determine if there is irritation of the cornea after contacts are prescribed

## Normal Results

If the test result is normal, the dye remains in the tear film on the surface
of the eye and does not stick to the eye itself.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may point to:

      * Abnormal tear production (dry eye)
      * Blocked tear duct
      * Corneal abrasion (a scratch on the surface of the cornea)
      * Foreign bodies, such as eyelashes or dust (foreign object in eye)
      * Infection
      * Injury or trauma
      * Severe dry eye associated with arthritis (keratoconjunctivitis sicca) 

## Risks

If the dye touches the skin, there may be a slight, brief, discoloration.

## Images

      * ![Fluorescent eye test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9330t.jpg)Fluorescent eye test

## References

Feder RS, Olsen TW, Prum BE Jr, et al.; American Academy of Ophthalmology.
Comprehensive adult medical eye evaluation preferred practice pattern
guidelines. _Ophthalmology_. 2016;123(1):209-236. PMID: 26581558
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26581558.

Prokopich CL, Hrynchak P, Elliott DB, Flanagan JG. Ocular health assessment.
In: Elliott DB, ed. _Clinical Procedures in Primary Eye Care_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 7.

## Review Date 2/7/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Corneal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CornealDisorders_thumb.jpg)Corneal
Disorders _Read more_

![Eye Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeDiseases_thumb.jpg)Eye
Diseases _Read more_

![Eye Injuries](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeInjuries_thumb.jpg)Eye
Injuries _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

