Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007193.htm    
                                Description: Premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) is a condition in which a woman has severe depression symptoms, irritability, and tension before menstruation. The symptoms of PMDD are more severe than those seen    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Premenstrual dysphoric disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007193.htm

# Premenstrual dysphoric disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) is a condition in which a woman has
severe depression symptoms, irritability, and tension before menstruation. The
symptoms of PMDD are more severe than those seen with premenstrual syndrome
(PMS).

PMS refers to a wide range of physical or emotional symptoms that most often
occur about 5 to 11 days before a woman starts her monthly menstrual cycle. In
most cases, the symptoms stop when, or shortly after, her period begins.

## Causes

The causes of PMS and PMDD have not been found.

Hormone changes that occur during a woman's menstrual cycle may play a role.

PMDD affects a small number of women during the years when they are having
menstrual periods.

Many women with this condition have:

      * Anxiety
      * Severe depression
      * Seasonal affective disorder (SAD) 

Other factors that may play a role include:

      * Alcohol or substance abuse 
      * Thyroid disorders
      * Being overweight
      * Having a mother with a history of the disorder
      * Lack of exercise 

## Symptoms

The symptoms of PMDD are similar to those of PMS. However, they are very often
more severe and debilitating. They also include at least one mood-related
symptom. Symptoms occur during the week just before menstrual bleeding. They
most often get better within a few days after the period starts.

Here is a list of common PMDD symptoms:

      * Lack ofÂ interest in daily activities and relationships
      * Fatigue or low energy
      * Sadness or hopelessness, possibly thoughts of suicide
      * Anxiety
      * Out of control feeling
      * Food cravings or binge eating
      * Mood swings with bouts of crying
      * Panic attacks
      * Irritability or anger that affects other people
      * Bloating, breast tenderness, headaches, and joint or muscle pain
      * Problems sleeping
      * Trouble concentrating

## Exams and Tests

No physical exam or lab tests can diagnose PMDD. A complete history, physical
exam (including a pelvic exam), thyroid testing, and psychiatric evaluation
should be done to rule out other conditions.

Keeping a calendar or diary of symptoms can help women identify the most
troublesome symptoms and the times when they are likely to occur. This
information may help your health care provider diagnose PMDD and determine the
best treatment.

## Treatment

A healthy lifestyle is the first step to managing PMDD.

      * Eat healthy foods with whole grains, vegetables, fruit, and little or no salt, sugar, alcohol, and caffeine.
      * Get regular aerobic exercise throughout the month to reduce the severity of PMS symptoms.
      * If you have problems sleeping, try changing your sleep habits before taking medicines for insomnia.

Keep a diary or calendar to record:

      * The type of symptoms you are having
      * How severe they are
      * How long they last

Antidepressants may be helpful.

The first option is most often an antidepressant known as a selective
serotonin-reuptake inhibitor (SSRI). You can take SSRIs in the second part of
your cycle up until your period starts. You may also take it the whole month.
Ask your provider.

Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) may be used either with or instead of
antidepressants. During CBT, you have about 10 visits with a mental health
professional over several weeks.

Other treatments that may help include:

      * Birth control pills typically help reduce PMS symptoms. Continuous dosing types are most effective, especially those that contain a hormone called drospirenone.Â With continuous dosing, you may not get a monthly period.
      * Diuretics may be useful for women who have significant short-term weight gain from fluid retention.
      * Other medicines (such as Depo-Lupron) suppress the ovaries and ovulation.
      * Pain relievers such as aspirin or ibuprofen may be prescribed for headache, backache, menstrual cramps, and breast tenderness.

Most studies have shown that nutritional supplements, such as vitamin B6,
calcium, and magnesium are not helpful in relieving symptoms.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

After proper diagnosis and treatment, most women with PMDD find that their
symptoms go away or drop to tolerable levels.

## Possible Complications

PMDD symptoms may be severe enough to interfere with a woman's daily life.
Women with depression may have worse symptoms during the second half of their
cycle and may need changes in their medicine.

Some women with PMDD have suicidal thoughts. Suicide in women with depression
is more likely to occur during the second half of their menstrual cycle.

PMDD may be associated with eating disorders and smoking.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call 911 or a local crisis lineÂ right awayÂ if you are having thoughts of
suicide.

Call your provider if:

      * Symptoms DO NOT improve with self-treatment
      * Symptoms interfere with your daily life

## Alternative Names

PMDD; Severe PMS; Menstrual disorder - dysphoric

## Images

      * ![Depression and the menstrual cycle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19296t.jpg)Depression and the menstrual cycle

## References

Gambone JC. Menstrual cycle-influenced disorders. In: Hacker NF, Gambone JC,
Hobel CJ, eds. _Hacker & Moore's Essentials of Obstetrics and Gynecology_. 6th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 36.

Mendiratta V, Lentz GM. Primary and secondary dysmenorrhea, premenstrual
syndrome, and premenstrual dysphoric disorder: etiology, diagnosis,
management. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds.
_Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 37.

Novac A. Mood disorders: depression, bipolar disease, and mood dysregulation.
In: Kellerman RD, Bope ET, eds. _Conn's Current Therapy 2018_. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:755-765.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Premenstrual
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PremenstrualSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Premenstrual
Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

