Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001505.htm    
                                Description: Premenstrual syndrome (PMS) refers to a wide range of symptoms. The symptoms start during the second half of the menstrual cycle (14 or more days after the first day of your last menstrual period). These    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Premenstrual syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001505.htm

# Premenstrual syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Premenstrual syndrome (PMS) refers to a wide range of symptoms. The symptoms
start during the second half of the menstrual cycle (14 or more days after the
first day of your last menstrual period). These usually go away 1 to 2 days
after the menstrual period starts.

## Causes

The exact cause of PMS is not known. Changes in brain hormone levels may play
a role. However, this has not been proven. Women with PMS may also respond
differently to these hormones.

PMS may be related to social, cultural, biological, and psychological factors.

Most women experience PMS symptoms during their childbearing years. PMS occurs
more often in women:

      * Between their late 20s and 40s
      * Who have had at least one child
      * With a personal or family history of major depression
      * With a history of postpartum depression or an affective mood disorder

The symptoms often get worse in late 30s and 40s as menopause approaches.

## Symptoms

The most common symptoms of PMS include:

      * Bloating or feeling gassy
      * Breast tenderness
      * Clumsiness
      * Constipation or diarrhea
      * Food cravings
      * Headache
      * Less tolerance for noises and lights 

Other symptoms include:

      * Confusion, trouble concentrating, or forgetfulness
      * Fatigue and feeling slow or sluggish
      * Feelings of sadness or hopelessness
      * Feelings of tension, anxiety, or edginess
      * Irritable, hostile, or aggressive behavior, with outbursts of anger toward self or others
      * Loss of sex drive (may increase in some women)
      * Mood swings
      * Poor judgment
      * Poor self-image, feelings of guilt, or increased fears
      * Sleep problems (sleeping too much or too little) 

## Exams and Tests

There are no specific signs or lab tests that can detect PMS. To rule out
other possible causes of symptoms, it is important to have a:

      * Complete medical history
      * Physical exam (including pelvic exam)

A symptom calendar can help women identify the most troublesome symptoms. This
also helps in confirming the diagnosis of PMS.

## Treatment

Keep a daily diary or log for at least 3 months. Record the:

      * Type of symptoms you have
      * How severe they are
      * How long they last 

This record will help you and your health care provider find the best
treatment.

A healthy lifestyle is the first step to managing PMS. For many women,
lifestyle approaches are often enough to control symptoms. To manage PMS:

      * Drink plenty of fluids like water or juice. Do not drink soft drinks, alcohol, or other beverages with caffeine. This will help reduce bloating, fluid retention, and other symptoms.
      * Eat frequent, small meals. Do not go more than 3 hours between snacks. Avoid overeating.
      * Eat a balanced diet. Include extra whole grains, vegetables, and fruit in your diet. Limit your intake of salt and sugar.
      * Your provider may suggest that you take nutritional supplements. Vitamin B6, calcium, and magnesium are commonly used. Tryptophan, which is found in dairy products, may also be helpful.
      * Get regular aerobic exercise throughout the month. This helps in reducing the severity of PMS symptoms. Exercise more often and harder during the weeks when you have PMS.
      * Try changing your nighttime sleep habits before taking drugs for sleep problems. 

Symptoms such as headache, backache, menstrual cramping, and breast tenderness
may be treated with:

      * Aspirin
      * Ibuprofen
      * Other NSAIDs 

Birth control pills may decrease or increase PMS symptoms.

In severe cases, medicines to treat depression may be helpful. Antidepressants
known as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are often tried
first. These have been shown to be very helpful. You may also want to seek the
advice of a counselor or therapist.

Other medicines that you may use include:

      * Anti-anxiety drugs for severe anxiety
      * Diuretics, which may help with severe fluid retention, which causes bloating, breast tenderness, and weight gain 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most women who are treated for PMS symptoms get good relief.

PMS symptoms may become severe enough to prevent you from functioning
normally.

The suicide rate in women with depression is much higher during the second
half of the menstrual cycle. Mood disorders need to be diagnosed and treated.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Make an appointment with your provider if:

      * PMS does not go away with self-treatment
      * Your symptoms are so severe that they limit your ability to function
      * You feel like you want to hurt yourself or others

## Alternative Names

PMS; Premenstrual dysphoric disorder; PMDD

## Images

      * ![Premenstrual bloating](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17014t.jpg)Premenstrual bloating
      * ![Relieving PMS](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17124t.jpg)Relieving PMS

## References

Freeman EW. Premenstrual syndrome. In: Kellerman RD, Bope ET, eds. _Conn's
Current Therapy 2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:1111-1114.

Hudson T. Premenstrual syndrome. In: Pizzorno JE, Murray MT, eds. _Textbook of
Natural Medicine_. 4th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone;
2013:chap 202.

Marjoribanks J, Brown J, O'Brien PM, Wyatt K. Selective serotonin reuptake
inhibitors for premenstrual syndrome. _Cochrane Database Syst Rev_.
2013;(6):CD001396. PMID: 23744611 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23744611.

Mendiratta V, Lentz GM. Primary and secondary dysmenorrhea, premenstrual
syndrome, and premenstrual dysphoric disorder: etiology, diagnosis,
management. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds.
_Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 37.

Neithardt AB. Premenstrual syndrome. In: Ferri FF, ed. _Ferri's Clinical
Advisor 2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:1054-1055.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Premenstrual
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PremenstrualSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Premenstrual
Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

