Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000556.htm    
                                Description: Premenstrual syndrome, or PMS, refers to a set of symptoms that most often:     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Premenstrual syndrome - self-care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000556.htm

# Premenstrual syndrome - self-care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Premenstrual syndrome, or PMS, refers to a set of symptoms that most often:

      * Start during the second half of a woman's menstrual cycle (14 or more days after the first day of your last menstrual period)
      * Go away within 1 to 2 days after your menstrual period starts 

## Keep a Diary of Symptoms

Keeping a calendar or diary of your symptoms can help you identify the
symptoms that are causing you the most trouble. Writing down your symptoms on
a calendar can help you understand possible triggers for your symptoms. It can
also help your health care provider choose an approach that is most helpful
for you. In your diary or calendar, be sure to record:

      * The type of symptoms you are having
      * How severe your symptoms are
      * How long your symptoms last
      * Did your symptoms respond to a treatment you tried 

You may need to try different things to treat PMS. Some things you try may
work, and others may not. Keeping track of your symptoms may help you find the
treatments that work best for you.

## Healthy Lifestyle Changes

A healthy lifestyle is the first step to managing PMS. For many women,
lifestyle changes alone are enough to control their symptoms.

Changes in what you drink or eat may help. During the second half of your
cycle:

      * Eat a balanced diet that includes lots of whole grains, vegetables, and fruit. Have little or no salt or sugar.
      * Drink plenty of fluids like water or juice. Avoid soft drinks, alcohol, or anything with caffeine in it.
      * Eat frequent, small meals or snacks instead of 3 large meals. Have something to eat at least every 3 hours. But do not overeat. 

Getting regular exercise throughout the month can help reduce how severe your
PMS symptoms are.

## Medicines, Vitamins, Supplements

Your provider may recommend that you take vitamins or supplements.

      * Vitamin B6, calcium, and magnesium may be recommended.
      * Tryptophan supplements may also be helpful. Eating foods that contain tryptophan may also help. Some of these are dairy products, soy beans, seeds, tuna, and shellfish.

Pain relievers, such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin, and others),
naproxen (Naprosyn, Aleve), and other medicines may help symptoms of headache,
backache, menstrual cramping, and breast tenderness.

      * Tell your provider if you are taking these medicines most days.
      * Your provider may prescribe stronger pain medicines for severe cramping.

Your provider may prescribe birth control pills, water pills (diuretics), or
other medicines to treat symptoms.

      * Follow the directions for taking them.
      * Ask about possible side effects and tell your provider if you have any of them.

## If you are Feeling sad or Stressed

For some women, PMS affects their mood and sleep patterns.

      * Try to get plenty of sleep throughout the month.
      * Try changing your nighttime sleep habits before you take drugs to help you sleep. For example, do quiet activities or listen to soothing music before going to sleep. 

To relieve anxiety and stress, try:

      * Deep breathing or muscle relaxation exercises
      * Yoga or other exercise
      * Massage 

Ask your provider about medicines or talk therapy if your symptoms become
worse.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

      * Your PMS does not go away with self-treatment.
      * You have new, unusual, or changing lumps in your breast tissue.
      * You have discharge from your nipple.
      * You are feeling very sad.

## Alternative Names

PMS - self-care; Premenstrual dysphoric disorder - self-care

## Images

      * ![Relief of menstrual cramps](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9622t.jpg)Relief of menstrual cramps

## References

Akopians AL. Premenstrual syndrome and dysmenorrhea. In: Mularz A, Dalati S,
Pedigo R, eds. _Ob/Gyn Secrets_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
2.

Mendiratta V, Lentz GM. Primary and secondary dysmenorrhea, premenstrual
syndrome, and premenstrual dysphoric disorder: etiology, diagnosis,
management. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds.
_Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 37.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Premenstrual Syndrome

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

