Link: https://medlineplus.gov/haemophilusinfections.html    
                                Description: Haemophilus is the name of a group of bacteria that can cause serious disease, such as Hib. There is a vaccine to prevent Hib. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Haemophilus Infections

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/haemophilusinfections.html

#  Haemophilus Infections

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Symptoms
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Haemophilus is the name of a group of bacteria. There are several types of
Haemophilus. They can cause different types of illnesses involving breathing,
bones and joints, and the nervous system.

One common type, Hib (Haemophilus influenzae type b), causes serious disease.
It usually strikes children under 5 years old. Your child can get Hib disease
by being around other children or adults who may have the bacteria and not
know it. The germs spread from person to person. If the germs stay in the
child's nose and throat, the child probably will not get sick. But sometimes
the germs spread into the lungs or the bloodstream, and then Hib can cause
serious problems such as meningitis and pneumonia.

Treatment is with antibiotics. There is a vaccine to prevent Hib disease. All
children younger than 5 years of age should be vaccinated with the Hib
vaccine.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Start Here

    * About Haemophilus influenzae Disease (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Haemophilus Influenzae Type B (Hib): Questions and Answers (Immunization Action Coalition) \- PDF
    * Protect Your Child against Hib Disease (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Symptoms

    * Haemophilus influenzae Disease (Including Hib) Symptoms (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Haemophilus influenzae Disease (Including Hib) Diagnosis and Treatment (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Haemophilus Influenzae Type b (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Haemophilus Influenzae Type b (Hib) Vaccine: What You Need to Know (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Epiglottitis (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)

## Specifics

    * Types of Haemophilus influenzae Infections (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Images

    * Hib Photos (Immunization Action Coalition)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Haemophilus Infections ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Haemophilus influenzae type b ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Invasive Nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae Infection Among Adults With HIV in Metropolitan...
    * Article: Diagnosis and Treatment of Adults with Community-acquired Pneumonia. An Official Clinical...
    * Article: Development of vaccine that could save lives of children in the...
    * Haemophilus Infections -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Haemophilus Influenzae Type b (Hib) Vaccine: What You Need to Know (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Hib Disease: Information for Parents (American Academy of Family Physicians, American Academy of Pediatrics, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF

## Topic Image

![Haemophilus
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HaemophilusInfections.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Epiglottitis
    * Meningitis - H. influenzae

## Related Health Topics

    * Bacterial Infections
    * Childhood Immunization
    * Meningitis
    * Pneumonia

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Haemophilus Infections is the
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Haemophilus
Infections_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 31 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 17 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

