Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000691.htm    
                                Description: Normal baby stools are soft and loose. Newborns have frequent stools, sometimes with every feeding. For these reasons, you may have trouble knowing when your baby has diarrhea.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diarrhea in infants

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000691.htm

# Diarrhea in infants

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Normal baby stools are soft and loose. Newborns have frequent stools,
sometimes with every feeding. For these reasons, you may have trouble knowing
when your baby has diarrhea.

Your baby may have diarrhea if you see changes in the stool, such as more
stools all of a sudden; possibly more than one stool per feeding or really
watery stools.

## Causes of Diarrhea

Diarrhea in babies usually does not last long. Most often, it is caused by a
virus and goes away on its own. Your baby could also have diarrhea with:

      * A change in your baby's diet or a change in the mother's diet if breastfeeding.
      * Use of antibiotics by the baby, or use by the mother if breastfeeding.
      * A bacterial infection. Your baby will need to take antibiotics to get better.
      * A parasite infection. Your baby will need to take medicine to get better.
      * Rare diseases such as cystic fibrosis. 

## Diarrhea Causes Dehydration

Infants and young children under age 3 can become dehydrated quickly and get
really sick. Dehydration means that your baby does not have enough water or
liquids. Watch your baby closely for signs of dehydration, which include:

      * Dry eyes and little to no tears when crying
      * Fewer wet diapers than usual
      * Less active than usual, lethargic
      * Irritable
      * Dry mouth
      * Dry skin that does not spring back to its usual shape after being pinched
      * Sunken eyes
      * Sunken fontanelle (the soft spot on top of the head) 

## Taking Care of Your Baby

Make sure your baby gets plenty of liquids so she does not get dehydrated.

      * Keep breastfeeding your baby if you are nursing. Breastfeeding helps prevent diarrhea, and your baby will recover quicker.
      * If you are using formula, make it full strength unless your health care provider gives you different advice. 

If your baby still seems thirsty after or between feedings, talk to your
provider about giving your baby Pedialyte or Infalyte. Your provider may
recommend these extra liquids that contain electrolytes.

      * Try giving your baby 1 ounce (2 tablespoons or 30 milliliters) of Pedialyte or Infalyte, every 30 to 60 minutes. Do not water down Pedialyte or Infalyte. Do not give sports drinks to young infants.
      * Try giving your baby a Pedialyte popsicle. 

If your baby throws up, give them only a little bit of liquid at a time. Start
with as little as 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of liquid every 10 to 15 minutes. Do not
give your baby solid foods when she is vomiting.

DO NOT give your baby ant-diarrhea medicine unless your provider says it is
OK.

## Feeding Your Baby

If your baby was on solid foods before the diarrhea began, start with foods
that are easy on the stomach, such as:

      * Bananas
      * Crackers
      * Toast
      * Pasta
      * Cereal 

Do not give your baby food that makes diarrhea worse, such as:

      * Apple juice
      * Milk
      * Fried foods
      * Full-strength fruit juice 

## Preventing Diaper Rash

Your baby might get diaper rash because of the diarrhea. To prevent diaper
rash:

      * Change your baby's diaper frequently.
      * Clean your baby's bottom with water. Cut down on using baby wipes while your baby has diarrhea.
      * Let your baby's bottom air dry.
      * Use a diaper cream. 

Wash your hands well to keep you and other people in your household from
getting sick. Diarrhea caused by germs can spread easily.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if your baby is a newborn (under 3 months old) and has
diarrhea.

Also call if your child has signs of being dehydrated, including:

      * Dry and sticky mouth
      * No tears when crying (soft spot)
      * No wet diaper for 6 hours 
      * A sunken fontanelle

Know the signs that your baby is not getting better, including:

      * Fever and diarrhea that last for more than 2 to 3 days
      * More than 8 stools in 8 hours
      * Vomiting continues for more than 24 hours
      * Diarrhea contains blood, mucus, or pus
      * Your baby is much less active than normal (is not sitting up at all or looking around)
      * Seems to have stomach pain 

## Alternative Names

Diarrhea - babies

## References

Kotloff KL. Acute gastroenteritis in children. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW,
Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 366.

Ochoa TJ, Chea-Woo E. Approach to patients with gastrointestinal tract
infections and food poisoning. In: Cherry JD, Harrison GJ, Kaplan SL,
Steinbach WJ, Hotez PJ, eds. _Feigin and Cherry's Textbook of Pediatric
Infectious Diseases_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2019:chap
44.

## Review Date 7/3/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Childrenâs Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Common Infant and Newborn Problems
      * Diarrhea

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

