Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000218.htm    
                                Description: Diarrhea is when you have more than 3 very loose bowel movements in 1 day. For many, diarrhea is mild and will pass within a few days. For others, it may last longer. It can make you feel weak and dehydrated.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diarrhea - what to ask your health care provider - adult

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000218.htm

# Diarrhea - what to ask your health care provider - adult

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Diarrhea is when you have more than 3 very loose bowel movements in 1 day. For
many, diarrhea is mild and will pass within a few days. For others, it may
last longer. It can make you feel weak and dehydrated. It can also lead to
unhealthy weight loss.

A stomach or intestinal illness can cause diarrhea. It can be a side effect of
medical treatments, such as antibiotics and some cancer treatments. It may
also result from taking some medicines and consuming artificial sweeteners
such as those used to sweeten sugar free gum and candies.

Below are questions you may want to ask your health care provider to help you
take care of your diarrhea.

## Questions

Questions you should ask:

      * Can I eat dairy foods?
      * What foods can make my problem worse?
      * Can I have greasy or spicy foods?
      * What type of gum or candy should I avoid?
      * Can I have caffeine, such as coffee or tea? Fruit juices? Carbonated drinks?
      * Which fruits or vegetables are OK to eat?
      * Are there foods I can eat so I do not lose too much weight?
      * How much water or liquid should I drink during the day? What are the signs that I am not drinking enough water?
      * Do any of the medicines, vitamins, herbs, or supplements I take cause diarrhea? Should I stop taking any of them?
      * What products can I buy to help with my diarrhea? What is the best way to take these?
      * What is the best way to take these products?
      * Which ones can I take every day?
      * Which ones should I not take every day?
      * Can any of these products make my diarrhea worse?
      * Should I take psyllium fiber (Metamucil)?
      * Does diarrhea mean I have a more serious medical problem?
      * When should I call the provider? 

## Alternative Names

What to ask your health care provider about diarrhea - adult; Loose stools -
what to ask your health care provider - adult

## References

de Leon A. Chronic diarrhea. In: Kellerman RD, Rakel DP, eds. _Conn's Current
Therapy 2019_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier 2019:183-184.

Schiller LR, Sellin JH. Diarrhea. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 16.

Semrad CE. Approach to the patient with diarrhea and malabsorption. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 131.

## Read More

      * Bacterial gastroenteritis
      * Campylobacter infection
      * Crohn disease
      * Diarrhea - overview
      * Drug-induced diarrhea
      * E coli enteritis
      * Giardia infection
      * Lactose intolerance
      * Traveler's diarrhea diet
      * Ulcerative colitis

## Patient Instructions

      * Abdominal radiation - discharge
      * After chemotherapy - discharge
      * Bone marrow transplant - discharge
      * Crohn disease - discharge
      * Daily bowel care program
      * Drinking water safely during cancer treatment
      * Pelvic radiation - discharge
      * Safe eating during cancer treatment
      * Ulcerative colitis - discharge
      * When you have nausea and vomiting

## Review Date 7/13/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Diarrhea

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

