Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000219.htm    
                                Description: Diarrhea is when your child has more than three very loose bowel movements in 1 day. For many children, diarrhea is mild and will pass within a few days. For others, it may last longer. It can make your    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diarrhea - what to ask your doctor - child

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000219.htm

# Diarrhea - what to ask your doctor - child

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Diarrhea is when your child has more than three very loose bowel movements in
1 day. For many children, diarrhea is mild and will pass within a few days.
For others, it may last longer. It can make your child feel weak and
dehydrated. It can also lead to unhealthy weight loss.

A stomach or intestinal illness can cause diarrhea. It can also be a side
effect of medical treatments, such as antibiotics and some cancer treatments.

Below are questions you may want to ask a health care provider if your child
has diarrhea.

## Questions

FOODS

      * What foods can make my child's diarrhea worse? How should I prepare the foods for my child?
      * If my child is still breastfeeding or bottle feeding, do I need to stop? Should I water down my child's formula?
      * Can I feed my child milk, cheese, or yogurt? Can I give my child any dairy foods?
      * What type of bread, crackers, or rice is best for my child?
      * Can I feed my child any sweets? Is artificial sugar OK?
      * Do I need to worry about my child getting enough salt and potassium?
      * Which fruits and vegetables are best for my child? How should I prepare them?
      * Are there foods my child can eat to prevent too much weight loss? 

FLUIDS

      * How much water or liquid should my child drink during the day? How can I tell when my child is not drinking enough?
      * If my child will not drink, what are other ways to get my child enough fluids?
      * Can my child drink anything with caffeine, such as coffee or tea?
      * Can my child drink fruit juices or carbonated drinks? 

MEDICINES

      * Is it safe to give my child medicines from the store that may help slow the diarrhea down?
      * Do any of the medicines, vitamins, herbs, or supplements my child is taking cause diarrhea?
      * Are there medicines I should stop giving my child? 

MEDICAL CARE

      * Does having diarrhea mean my child has a more serious medical problem?
      * When should I call the provider? 

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about diarrhea - child; Loose stools - what to ask
your doctor - child

## References

Bhutta ZA. Acute gastsroenteritis in children. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 340.

Schiller LR, Sellin JH. Diarrhea. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 16.

## Read More

      * Bacterial gastroenteritis
      * Campylobacter infection
      * Diarrhea - overview
      * E coli enteritis
      * Giardia infection
      * Lactose intolerance
      * Traveler's diarrhea diet

## Patient Instructions

      * Abdominal radiation - discharge
      * After chemotherapy - discharge
      * Bone marrow transplant - discharge
      * Crohn disease - discharge
      * Daily bowel care program
      * Drinking water safely during cancer treatment
      * Safe eating during cancer treatment
      * Ulcerative colitis - discharge
      * When you have diarrhea
      * When you have nausea and vomiting

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Diarrhea

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

