Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003126.htm    
                                Description: Diarrhea is when you pass loose or watery stool.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diarrhea - overview

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003126.htm

# Diarrhea - overview

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Diarrhea is when you pass loose or watery stool.

![Diarrhea](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19659.jpg)

## Considerations

In some people, diarrhea is mild and goes away in a few days. In other people,
it may last longer.

Diarrhea can make you feel weak and dehydrated.

Diarrhea in babies and children can be serious. It needs to be treated
differently than you would treat diarrhea in adults.

Talk with your health care provider if your child has diarrhea. There can be a
lot to know. Your provider can help you learn how to recognize and treat
diarrhea in babies and in children.

## Causes

The most common cause of diarrhea is the stomach flu (viral gastroenteritis).
This mild viral infection most often goes away on its own within a few days.

Eating or drinking food or water that contains certain types of bacteria or
parasites can also lead to diarrhea. This problem may be called food
poisoning.

Certain medicines may also cause diarrhea, including:

      * Some antibiotics
      * Chemotherapy drugs for cancer
      * Laxatives containing magnesium 

Diarrhea may also be caused by medical disorders, such as:

      * Celiac disease
      * Inflammatory bowel diseases (Crohn disease and ulcerative colitis)
      * Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS)
      * Lactose intolerance (which causes problems after drinking milk and eating other dairy products)
      * Malabsorption syndromes

Less common causes of diarrhea include:

      * Carcinoid syndrome
      * Disorders of the nerves that supply the intestines
      * Removal of part of the stomach (gastrectomy) or small intestine
      * Radiation therapy 

People who travel to developing countries can get diarrhea from unclean water
or food that has not been handled safely. Plan ahead by learning the risks and
treatment for traveler's diarrhea before your trip.

## Home Care

Most times, you can treat diarrhea at home. You will need to learn:

      * To drink plenty of fluids to prevent dehydration (when your body does not have the proper amount of water and fluids)
      * Which foods you should or should not eat
      * What to do if you are breastfeeding
      * What danger signs to watch out for 

Avoid medicines for diarrhea that you can buy without a prescription, unless
your provider tells you to use them. These drugs can make some infections
worse.

If you have a long-term form of diarrhea, such as diarrhea caused by irritable
bowel syndrome, changes to your diet and lifestyle may help.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider right away if you or your child shows signs of dehydration:

      * Decreased urine (fewer wet diapers in infants)
      * Dizziness or lightheadedness
      * Dry mouth
      * Sunken eyes
      * Few tears when crying 

Call for an appointment with your provider if you have:

      * Blood or pus in your stools
      * Black stools
      * Stomach pain that does not go away after a bowel movement
      * Diarrhea with a fever above 101Â°F or 38.33Â°C (100.4Â°F or 38Â°C in children)
      * Recently traveled to a foreign country and developed diarrhea 

Also call your provider if:

      * The diarrhea gets worse or does not get better in 2 days for an infant or child, or 5 days for adults
      * A child over 3 months old has been vomiting for more than 12 hours; in younger babies, call as soon as vomiting or diarrhea begins 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a physical exam and ask you questions about your
medical history and symptoms.

Lab tests may be done on your stools to find the cause of your diarrhea.

This is also a good time to ask your provider any questions you have about
diarrhea.

Over-the-counter supplements that contain healthy bacteria may help prevent
diarrhea caused by taking antibiotics. These are called probiotics. Yogurt
with active or live cultures is also a good source of these healthy bacteria.

The following healthy steps can help you prevent illnesses that cause
diarrhea:

      * Wash your hands often, particularly after going to the bathroom and before eating.
      * Use alcohol-based hand gel frequently.
      * Teach children to not put objects in their mouth.
      * Take steps to avoid food poisoning.

When traveling to underdeveloped areas, follow the steps below to avoid
diarrhea:

      * Drink only bottled water and DO NOT use ice, unless it is made from bottled or purified water.
      * DO NOT eat uncooked vegetables or fruits that do not have peels.
      * DO NOT eat raw shellfish or undercooked meat.
      * DO NOT consume dairy products. 

## Alternative Names

Stools - watery; Frequent bowel movements; Loose bowel movements; Unformed
bowel movements

## Patient Instructions

      * Clear liquid diet
      * Diarrhea - what to ask your doctor - child 
      * Diarrhea - what to ask your health care provider - adult
      * Full liquid diet
      * When you have nausea and vomiting

## Images

      * ![Campylobacter jejuni organism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1050t.jpg)Campylobacter jejuni organism
      * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
      * ![Cryptosporidium - organism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1395t.jpg)Cryptosporidium - organism
      * ![Diarrhea](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19659t.jpg)Diarrhea

## References

Schiller LR, Sellin JH. Diarrhea. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 16.

Semrad CE. Approach to the patient with diarrhea and malabsorption. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 140.

## Review Date 10/25/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diarrhea](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Diarrhea_thumb.jpg)Diarrhea _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

