Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000612.htm    
                                Description: No one will tell you that labor is going to be easy. Labor means work, after all. But, there is plenty you can do ahead of time to prepare for labor.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Strategies for getting through labor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000612.htm

# Strategies for getting through labor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

No one will tell you that labor is going to be easy. Labor means work, after
all. But, there is plenty you can do ahead of time to prepare for labor.

One of the best ways to prepare is to take a childbirth class to learn what to
expect in labor. You will also learn:

      * How to breathe, visualize, and use your labor coach
      * More about how to manage pain during labor, such as epidural and other medicines

Having a plan and knowing ways to manage pain will help you feel more relaxed
and in control when the day arrives.

Here are a few ideas that may be helpful.

## At Home

When labor first begins, be patient and monitor your body. It is not always
easy to know when you are going into labor. The steps leading up to labor can
last for days.

Use your time at home to take showers or warm baths and pack your bag if you
have not packed yet.

Walk around the house or sit in your baby's room until it is time to go to the
hospital.

Most health care providers recommend that you come to the hospital when:

      * You are having regular, painful contractions. You can use the "411" guide: Contractions are strong and coming every 4 minutes, they last 1 minute, and they have been ongoing for 1 hour.
      * Your water is leaking or breaking.
      * You have heavy bleeding.
      * Your baby is moving less. 

## At the Hospital

Create a peaceful place for giving birth.

      * Dim the lights in your room if you find it soothing.
      * Listen to music that comforts you.
      * Keep pictures or comfort items close by where you can see or touch them.
      * Ask your nurse for extra pillows or blankets to stay comfortable. 

Keep your mind busy.

      * Bring books, photo albums, games, or other things that will help distract you during early labor. You can also watch TV to keep your mind busy.
      * Visualize, or see things in your mind the way you would like them to be. You can visualize that your pain goes away. Or, you can visualize your baby in your arms to help you stay focused on your goal.
      * Meditate. 

Get as comfortable as you can.

      * Move around, changing positions often. Sitting, squatting, rocking, leaning on the wall, or walking up and down the hallway can help.
      * Take warm baths or showers in your hospital room.
      * If heat doesn't feel good, place cool washcloths on your forehead and lower back.
      * Ask your provider for a birthing ball, which is a big ball you can sit on that will roll under your legs and hips for gentle movement.
      * DO NOT be afraid to make noise. It is OK to moan, groan, or cry out. Some studies suggest that using your voice goes a long way in helping you deal with pain.
      * Use your labor coach. Tell them what they can do to help you go through labor. Your coach can give you back massages, keep you distracted, or just cheer you on.
      * Some women try "hypnobirthing", being under hypnosis while giving birth. Ask your provider for more details about hypnobirthing if you are interested. 

Speak up. Talk to your labor coach and your providers. Tell them how they can
help you get through your labor.

Ask your provider about pain relief during labor. Most women do not know
exactly how their labor will go, how they will cope with the pain, or what
they will need until they are in labor. It is important to explore all options
and be prepared before your labor begins.

## Alternative Names

Pregnancy - getting through labor

## References

Flood P, Rollins MD. Anesthesia for obstetrics. In: Miller RD, ed. _Miller's
Anesthesia_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 77.

Mertz MJ, Earl CJ. Labor pain management. In: Rakel D, ed. _Integrative
Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 52.

Minnich ME. Childbirth preparation and nonpharmacologic analgesia. In:
Chestnut DH, Wong CA, Tsen LC, et al, eds. _Chestnut's Obstetric Anesthesia:
Principles and Practice_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 21.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Childbirth

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

