Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000625.htm    
                                Description: Inducing labor refers to different treatments used to either start or move your labor at a faster pace. The goal is to bring on contractions or to make them stronger.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Inducing labor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000625.htm

# Inducing labor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Inducing labor refers to different treatments used to either start or move
your labor at a faster pace. The goal is to bring on contractions or to make
them stronger.

Several methods can help get labor started.

## Rupturing the Membranes

Amniotic fluid is the water that surrounds your baby in the womb. It contains
membranes or layers of tissue. One method of inducing labor is to "break the
bag of waters" or rupture the membranes.

      * Your health care provider will do a pelvic exam and will guide a small plastic probe with a hook on the end through your cervix to create a hole in the membrane. This does not hurt you or your baby.
      * Your cervix must already be dilated and the baby's head must have dropped down into your pelvis. 

Most of the time, contractions will begin within minutes to a few hours
afterward. If labor does not begin after a few hours, you may receive a
medicine through your veins to help start contractions. This is because the
longer it takes for labor to start, the greater your chance of getting an
infection.

## Using Prostaglandins

Early in your pregnancy your cervix should be firm, long, and closed. Before
your cervix starts to dilate or open, it must first become soft and begin to
"thin out."

For some, this process may begin before labor has started. But if your cervix
has not begun to ripen or thin, your provider can use a medicine called
prostaglandins.

The medicine is placed in your vagina next to your cervix. Prostaglandins will
often ripen, or soften the cervix, and contractions may even begin. Your
baby's heart rate will be monitored for a few hours. If labor does not begin,
you may be allowed to leave the hospital and walk around.

## Oxytocin (Pitocin)

Oxytocin is a medicine given through your veins (IV or intravenous) to either
start your contractions or make them stronger. A small amount enters your body
through the vein at a steady rate. The dose may be slowly increased as needed.

Your baby's heart rate and the strength of your contractions will be monitored
closely.

      * This is done to make sure your contractions are not so strong that they harm your baby.
      * Oxytocin may not be used if tests show that your unborn baby is not getting enough oxygen or food through the placenta.

Oxytocin will often create regular contractions. Once your own body and uterus
"kick in," your provider may be able to reduce the dose.

## Why is it Done?

There are many reasons why you may need labor induction.

The induction of labor may be started before any signs of labor are present
when:

      * The membranes or bag of waters breaks but labor has not begun (after your pregnancy has passed 34 to 36 weeks).
      * You pass your due date, most often when the pregnancy is between 41 and 42 weeks.
      * You have had a stillbirth in the past.
      * You have a condition such as high blood pressure or diabetes during pregnancy that may threaten the health of you or your baby. 

Oxytocin may also be started after a woman's labor has started, but her
contractions have not been strong enough to dilate her cervix.

## Alternative Names

Labor induction; Pregnancy - inducing labor; Prostaglandin - inducing labor;
Oxytocin - inducing labor

## References

Sheibani I, Wing DA. Abnormal labor and induction of labor. In: Gabbe SG,
Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 13.

Thorp JM, Grantz KL. Clinical aspects of normal and abnormal labor. In: Resnik
R, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, Copel JA, Silver RM, eds. _Creasy and
Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 43.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Childbirth

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

