Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000589.htm    
                                Description: If you had a cesarean birth (C-section) before, it does not mean that you will have to deliver the same way again. Many women can have vaginal deliveries after having a C-section in the past. This is called    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vaginal birth after C-section

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000589.htm

# Vaginal birth after C-section

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If you had a cesarean birth (C-section) before, it does not mean that you will
have to deliver the same way again. Many women can have vaginal deliveries
after having a C-section in the past. This is called a vaginal birth after
cesarean (VBAC).

## Why Should I Think About a VBAC?

Most women who try VBAC are able to deliver vaginally. There are many good
reasons to try a VBAC rather than have a C-section. Some are:

      * Shorter stay in the hospital
      * Faster recovery
      * No surgery
      * Lower risk for infections
      * Less chance you will need a blood transfusion
      * You may avoid future C-sections -- a good thing for women who want to have more children

## What are the Risks?

The most serious risk with VBAC is a rupture (break) of the uterus. Blood loss
from a rupture can be a risk for the mom and can injure the baby.

Women who try VBAC and do not succeed are also more likely to need a blood
transfusion. There is also a greater risk of getting an infection in the
uterus.

## Who can Have a VBAC?

The chance of a rupture depends on how many C-sections and what kind you had
before. You may be able to have a VBAC if you had only one C-section delivery
in the past.

      * The cut on your uterus from a past C-section should be what is called low-transverse. Your health care provider may ask for the report from your past C-section.
      * You should have no past history of ruptures of your uterus or scars from other surgeries.

Your provider will want to make sure your pelvis is large enough for a vaginal
birth and will monitor you to see if you have a big baby. It may not be safe
for your baby to pass through your pelvis.

Because problems can occur quickly, where you plan to have your delivery is
also a factor.

      * You will need to be somewhere where you can be monitored through your entire labor.
      * A medical team including anesthesia, obstetrics and operating room personnel must be nearby to do an emergency C-section if things do not go as planned.
      * Smaller hospitals may not have the right team. You may need to go to a bigger hospital to deliver.

## Who Decides if I Should Try for a VBAC?

You and your provider will decide if a VBAC is right for you. Talk with your
provider about the risks and benefits for you and your baby.

Every woman's risk is different, so ask what factors matter most for you. The
more you know about VBAC, the easier it will be to decide if it is right for
you.

If your provider says that you can have a VBAC, the chances are good that you
can have one with success. Most women who try VBAC are able to deliver
vaginally.

Keep in mind, you can try for a VBAC, but you may still need a C-section.

## Alternative Names

VBAC; Pregnancy - VBAC; Labor - VBAC; Delivery - VBAC

## References

Chestnut DH. Trial of labor and vaginal birth after cesarean delivery. In:
Chestnut DH, Wong CA, Tsen LC, et al, eds. _Chestnut's Obstetric Anesthesia:
Principles and Practice_. 5th ed. Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 19.

Landon MB, Grobman WA. Vaginal birth after cesarean delivery. In: Gabbe SG,
Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 20.

Williams DE, Pridjian G. Obstetrics. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds. _Textbook of
Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 20.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cesarean Section
      * Childbirth

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

