Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000587.htm    
                                Description: There is no one best method for dealing with pain during labor. The best choice is the one that makes the most sense for you. Whether you choose to use pain relief or not, it is good to prepare yourself    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Managing pain during labor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000587.htm

# Managing pain during labor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

There is no one best method for dealing with pain during labor. The best
choice is the one that makes the most sense for you. Whether you choose to use
pain relief or not, it is good to prepare yourself for natural childbirth.

## Natural Childbirth

The pain felt during childbirth is different for every woman. Some women
choose natural childbirth, or giving birth without medicine for pain. If all
goes well, it can be a great experience.

If you want to deliver without medicine, take a childbirth class. Childbirth
classes teach breathing and relaxation techniques. These techniques can help
you relieve pain naturally during birth. And, they can add to the relief you
get from medicine if you choose to take it.

For some women, the techniques learned in childbirth classes are enough to
relieve their pain. Other women may choose to use pain medicine during
childbirth.

## Pain Medicines for Childbirth

A systemic analgesic is a pain medicine that is injected into your vein or
muscle. This medicine acts on your entire nervous system rather than just a
certain part of your body. The pain may not completely go away, but it will be
dulled.

With systemic analgesics, some women have an easier labor and feel more
relaxed. These medicines often do not slow down labor. They also do not affect
contractions.

But, they make you and your baby drowsy. Some women complain of feeling like
they lose control.

An epidural block numbs or causes a loss of feeling in the lower half of your
body. Your health care provider injects the block into your lower back. This
lessens the pain of contractions and makes it easier to deliver your baby
through your vagina.

Epidural is the safest and most effective pain-relieving procedure. Most women
choose an epidural to manage the pain of their labor. Facts about epidurals:

      * There is no sedating effect on you or your baby.
      * The risks are small.
      * The chances of needing a cesarean delivery (C-section) do not increase.
      * Labor sometimes is slightly longer if you receive an epidural.
      * Many times an epidural can allow labor that has stalled to progress.
      * The biggest side effect of an epidural is numbness and lack of movement (mobility).

Local anesthesia (pudendal block) is a numbing medicine that your provider
injects into your vagina and rectal areas when you are close to delivery. It
lessens the pain as the baby passes through the numbed area.

## Plan and be Prepared

Keep in mind that a plan is just a plan. Be flexible when you are planning for
your labor and delivery. Things often change when the actual day arrives. Many
women decide before going into labor to have natural childbirth. Later, they
change their mind and decide they want pain medicine after all. It is OK to
change your mind.

Other women plan on pain medicine, but they arrive at the hospital too late.
Sometimes, the baby is born before the woman can get pain medicine. It is a
good idea to go to childbirth classes and learn about breathing and relaxation
techniques, even if you plan to get pain medicine.

Talk to provider about the different types of pain relief for your labor and
delivery. The health and safety of you and your baby come first, so your
provider may recommend one type of pain relief for you over others. It is good
to know all of your options so you can make the best plan for your labor and
delivery.

## Alternative Names

Pregnancy - pain during labor; Birth - managing pain

## References

Flood P, Rollins MD. Anesthesia for obstetrics. In: Miller RD, ed. _Miller's
Anesthesia_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 77.

Hawkins JL, Bucklin BA. Obstetrical anesthesia. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR,
Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 16.

Thorp JM, Grantz KL. Clinical aspects of normal and abnormal labor. In:
Resnick R, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, Copel JA, Silver RM, eds. _Creasy
and Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 43.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Childbirth

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

