Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000484.htm    
                                Description: An epidural block is a numbing medicine given by injection (shot) in the back. It numbs or causes a loss of feeling in the lower half your body. This lessens the pain of contractions during childbirth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Epidural block - pregnancy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000484.htm

# Epidural block - pregnancy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An epidural block is a numbing medicine given by injection (shot) in the back.
It numbs or causes a loss of feeling in the lower half your body. This lessens
the pain of contractions during childbirth. An epidural block may also be used
to reduce pain during surgery on the lower extremities. This article focuses
on epidural blocks during childbirth.

## How is the Epidural Given?

The block or shot is given into an area over your lower back or spine.

      * You may be asked to lie on your side, or you may sit up.
      * Either way, you will be asked to pull your stomach inward and hunch your back outward. 

Your health care provider will wash the area of your back and inject a little
medicine to numb the spot where the epidural needle is placed:

      * The provider inserts a needle into your lower back.
      * The needle is placed into a small space outside your spinal cord.
      * A small soft tube (catheter) is placed into your back, next to your spine.
      * The needle is removed. 

The numbing medicine is given through the tube for as long as it is needed.

In most cases, you will receive a low dose because it is safer for you and
baby. Once the medicine takes effect (10 to 20 minutes), you should feel
better. You may still feel some back or rectal pressure during contractions.

You may shiver after an epidural, but this is common. Many women shiver during
labor even without an epidural.

![Epidural - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19168.jpg)

## Is an Epidural Safe?

Many studies have shown that an epidural is a safe way to manage pain during
childbirth. While rare, there are some risks.

Your blood pressure may drop for a short while. This might cause the baby's
heart rate to slow down.

      * To avoid this, you will receive fluids through an intravenous (IV) line to help keep your blood pressure stable.
      * If your blood pressure shows a drop, you may need to lie on your side to keep the blood moving throughout your body.
      * Your provider may also give you medicine to raise your blood pressure.

An epidural block may change or alter labor and delivery.

      * If you are very numb from the block, you may have a harder time bearing down to push your baby through the birth canal.
      * Contractions may lessen or slow down for a little while, but labor will still move along as it should. In some cases, it may even go faster. If your labor slows down, your doctor can give you medicine to speed up your contractions. It is best to wait until you are in active labor to have the epidural placed.

Other rare side effects are:

      * You may get a headache after your epidural but this is rare.
      * Medicine could enter your spinal fluid. For a short while, it could make you feel dizzy, or you might have a hard time breathing. You could also have a seizure. This is also rare.

## What Types of Epidurals are There?

There are 2 types:

      * "Walking" epidural block. This type of epidural will lessen your pain, but you will still be able to move your legs. Most women are not really able to walk around, but they can move their legs.
      * Combined spinal epidural block. This combines both a spinal and epidural block. It provides pain relief much faster. The combined block is used when women are in very active labor and want relief right away. 

## Alternative Names

Delivery - epidural; Labor - epidural

## Images

      * ![Epidural - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19168t.jpg)Epidural - series

## References

Flood P, Rollins MD. Anesthesia for obstetrics. In: Miller RD, ed. _Miller's
Anesthesia_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 77.

Hawkins JL, Bucklin BA. Obstetric anesthesia. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson
JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2017:chap 16.

Nathan N, Wong CA. Spinal, epidural, and caudal anesthesia: Anatomy,
Physiology, and Technique. In: Chestnut DH, Wong CA, Tsen LC, et al, eds.
_Chestnut's Obstetric Anesthesia: Principles and Practice_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 12.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Anesthesia
      * Childbirth

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

