Link: https://medlineplus.gov/polioandpostpoliosyndrome.html    
                                Description: Poliovirus is very contagious. Get the facts on polio and post-polio syndrome. Take precautions when travelling and learn about the polio vaccine.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Polio and Post-Polio Syndrome

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/polioandpostpoliosyndrome.html

#  Polio and Post-Polio Syndrome

Also called: Infantile paralysis, Poliomyelitis, PPS

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Polio is an infectious disease caused by a virus. The virus lives in an
infected person's throat and intestines. It is most often spread by contact
with the stool of an infected person. You can also get it from droplets if an
infected person sneezes or coughs. It can contaminate food and water if people
do not wash their hands.

Most people have no symptoms. If you have symptoms, they may include fever,
fatigue, nausea, headache, flu-like symptoms, stiff neck and back, and pain in
the limbs. A few people will become paralyzed. There is no treatment to
reverse the paralysis of polio.

Some people who've had polio develop post-polio syndrome (PPS) years later.
Symptoms include tiredness, new muscle weakness, and muscle and joint pain.
There is no way to prevent or cure PPS.

The polio vaccine has wiped out polio in the United States and most other
countries.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Start Here

    * Polio (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Polio Vaccination (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Post-Polio Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) \- Short Summary
    * Post-Polio Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Late Effects of Polio: An Overview (Post-Polio Health International including International Ventilator Users Network)

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Polio and Prevention (World Health Organization)
    * Polio Vaccine (American Academy of Family Physicians)
    * Polio Vaccine: What You Need to Know (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Alternative Therapies (Post-Polio Health International including International Ventilator Users Network)

## Living With

    * Coughing (Post-Polio Health International including International Ventilator Users Network)
    * Home Ventilator Guide (Post-Polio Health International including International Ventilator Users Network) \- PDF
    * Information about the Late Effects of Polio (Post-Polio Health International including International Ventilator Users Network) Also in Spanish
    * Orthotics (Post-Polio Health International including International Ventilator Users Network)
    * Poliomyelitis (World Health Organization) Also in Spanish
    * Wellness (Post-Polio Health International including International Ventilator Users Network)

## Related Issues

    * Cold Intolerance (Post-Polio Health International including International Ventilator Users Network)
    * Travelers' Health: Poliomyelitis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Images

    * Polio Pictures (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Statistics and Research

    * Wild Poliovirus List (World Health Organization)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Poliomyelitis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Postpoliomyelitis Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Detection of immunoglobulin G levels produced by oral polio vaccine in...
    * Article: Effective Partnership Mechanisms: A Legacy of the Polio Eradication Initiative in...
    * Article: Community Engagement, Ownership, and Civil Society Organizations in Polio Eradication.
    * Polio and Post-Polio Syndrome -- see more articles
    * Postpolio Syndrome -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
    * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
    * Post-Polio Directory 2014: Post-Polio Clinics, Health Professionals, Support Groups (Post-Polio Health International including International Ventilator Users Network) \- PDF
    * World Health Organization

## Children

    * Polio (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Polio and the Vaccine (Shot) to Prevent It (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Polio: Information for Parents (American Academy of Family Physicians, American Academy of Pediatrics, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF
    * Poliomyelitis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Polio y sÃ­ndrome de post-polio](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Polio.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Poliomyelitis

## Related Health Topics

    * Paralysis

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Polio and Post-Polio Syndrome is
the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Polio and Post-
Polio Syndrome_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 23 September 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

