Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000621.htm    
                                Description: Delivery presentation describes the way the baby is positioned to come down the birth canal for delivery.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Delivery presentations

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000621.htm

# Delivery presentations

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Delivery presentation describes the way the baby is positioned to come down
the birth canal for delivery.

Your baby must pass through your pelvic bones to reach the vaginal opening.
The ease at which this passage will take place depends on how your baby is
positioned during delivery. The best position for the baby to be in to pass
through the pelvis is with the head down and the body facing towards the
mother's back. This position is called occiput anterior (OA).

In breech position, the baby's bottom is facing down instead of the head. Your
health care provider will most often detect this in an office visit before
your labor begins. Most babies will be in the head-down position by about 34
weeks.

Part of your prenatal care after 34 weeks will involve making sure your baby
is in the head-down position.

If your baby is breech, it is not safe to deliver vaginally. If your baby is
not in a head-down position after your 36th week, your provider can explain
your choices and their risks to help you decide what steps to take next.

## Occiput Posterior (OP)

In occiput posterior position, your baby's head is down, but it is facing the
mother's front instead of her back.

It is safe to deliver a baby facing this way. But it is harder for the baby to
get through the pelvis. If a baby is in this position, sometimes it will
rotate around during labor so that the head stays down and the body faces the
mother's back (OA position).

The mother can walk, rock, and try different delivery positions during labor
to help encourage the baby to turn. If the baby does not turn, labor can take
longer. Sometimes, the provider may use forceps or a vacuum device to help get
the baby out.

## Transverse Position

A baby in the transverse position is sideways. Often, the shoulders or back
are over the mother's cervix. This is also called the shoulder, or oblique,
position.

The risk for having a baby in the transverse position increases if you:

      * Go into labor early
      * Have given birth 3 or more times
      * Have placenta previa

Unless your baby can be turned into head-down position, a vaginal birth will
be too risky for you and your baby. A doctor will deliver your baby by
cesarean birth (C-section).

## Less Common Presentations

With the brow-first position, the baby's head extends backward (like looking
up), and the forehead leads the way. This position may be more common if this
is not your first pregnancy.

      * Your provider rarely detects this position before labor. An ultrasound may be able to confirm a brow presentation.
      * More likely, your provider will detect this position while you are in labor during an internal exam. 

With face-first position, the baby's head is extended backwards even more than
with brow first position.

      * Most of the time, the force of contractions causes the baby to be in face-first position.
      * It is also detected when labor does not progress. 

In some of these presentations, a vaginal birth is possible, but labor will
generally take longer. After delivery, the baby's face or brow will be swollen
and may appear bruised. These changes will go away over the next few days.

## Alternative Names

Pregnancy - delivery presentation; Labor - delivery presentation; Occiput
posterior; Occiput anterior; Brow presentation

## References

Lanni SM, Gherman R, Gonik B. Malpresentations. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR,
Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 17.

Thorp JM, Grantz KL. Clinical aspects of normal and abnormal labor. In: Resnik
R, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, Copel JA, Silver RM, eds. _Creasy and
Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2019:chap 43.

Vora S, Dobiesz VA. Emergency childbirth. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen
TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine and
Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 56.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Childbirth

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

