Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000596.htm    
                                Description: You have many decisions to make when you are expecting a baby. One of the first is to decide what kind of health care provider you want for your pregnancy care and the birth of your baby. You may choose    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Choosing the right health care provider for pregnancy and childbirth

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000596.htm

# Choosing the right health care provider for pregnancy and childbirth

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You have many decisions to make when you are expecting a baby. One of the
first is to decide what kind of health care provider you want for your
pregnancy care and the birth of your baby. You may choose an:

      * Obstetrician
      * Family practice doctor
      * Certified nurse-midwife

Each of these providers is described below. Each has different training,
skills, and outlooks about pregnancy and childbirth. Your choice will depend
on your health and the type of birth experience you want.

Here are some things you need to consider when you decide on the type of
provider you want:

      * Risk factors you may have for problems during pregnancy and childbirth
      * Where you would like to deliver your baby
      * Your beliefs and desires about natural childbirth

## Obstetricians

An obstetrician (OB) is a doctor who has special training in women's health
and pregnancy.

OB doctors specialize in both caring for women during pregnancy and labor, and
delivering their babies.

Some OBs have advanced training in caring for high-risk pregnancies. They are
called maternal-fetal medicine specialists, or perinatologists. Women may be
advised to see an OB specialist if they:

      * Had an earlier complicated pregnancy
      * Are expecting twins, triplets, or more
      * Have a preexisting medical condition
      * Need to have a cesarean delivery (C-section), or had one in the past

## Family Physicians

The family physician (FP) is a doctor who has studied family practice
medicine. This doctor can treat many illnesses and conditions, and treats men
and women of all ages.

Some family doctors also take care of women who are pregnant.

      * Many will care for you during your pregnancy and when you deliver your baby.
      * Others provide prenatal care only and have an OB or midwife care for you during the birth of your baby. 

Family doctors are also trained to take care of your newborn after delivery.

## Certified Nurse-Midwives (CNM)

Certified nurse-midwives (CNM) are trained in nursing and midwifery. Most
CNMs:

      * Have a bachelor's degree in nursing
      * Have a master's degree in midwifery
      * Are certified by the American College of Nurse-Midwives

Nurse midwives care for women during pregnancy, labor, and delivery.

Women who want to have as natural a childbirth as possible may choose a CNM.
Midwives view pregnancy and childbirth as normal processes, and they help
women safely deliver without treatments or minimize their use. Treatments may
include:

      * Pain medicines
      * Vacuum or forceps
      * C-sections

Most nurse midwives work with OBs. If complications or medical conditions
develop during pregnancy, the woman will be referred to an OB for a consult or
to take over her care.

## Alternative Names

Prenatal care - health care provider; Pregnancy care - health care provider

## References

American College of Nurse-Midwives. Joint statement of practice relations
between obstetrician-gynecologists and certified nurse-midwives/certified
midwives. www.acog.org/-/media/Statements-of-Policy/Public/87ACNM-
CollegePolicy-Statement---June-2018.pdf?dmc=1&ts=20190917T1451321866. Updated
April 2018. Accessed November 12, 2018.

Gregory KD, Ramos DE, Jauniaux ERM. Preconception and prenatal care. In: Gabbe
SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 6.

Williams DE, Pridjian G. Obstetrics. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds. _Textbook of
Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 20.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 09-17-19:
Editorial update.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Childbirth
      * Choosing a Doctor or Health Care Service
      * Pregnancy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

