Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000970.htm    
                                Description: You are going to give birth to a baby. You may want to know about the things to do or avoid during your hospital stay. You may also want to know about the care you receive at the hospital. Below are some    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Questions to ask your doctor about hospital care after delivery

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000970.htm

# Questions to ask your doctor about hospital care after delivery

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You are going to give birth to a baby. You may want to know about the things
to do or avoid during your hospital stay. You may also want to know about the
care you receive at the hospital. Below are some questions you may ask your
health care provider about your stay at the hospital.

## Questions

How should I prepare for my hospital stay?

      * Should I preregister with the hospital?
      * Can the hospital reasonably accommodate my birth plan?
      * If I need to come during off-hours, what entrance should I use?
      * Can I schedule a tour ahead of time?
      * What should I pack to bring to the hospital? Can I wear my own clothes?
      * Can a family member stay with me in the hospital?
      * How many people can attend my delivery?
      * What are my options for food and beverages? 

Can I breastfeed my baby right after birth?

      * If I want, can I have skin-to-skin contact with my baby right after birth?
      * Will there be a lactation consultant who can help with breastfeeding?
      * How often should I breast feed while in the hospital?
      * Can my baby stay in my room?
      * Can my baby be cared for in the nursery if I need to sleep or shower? 

What should I expect in first 24 hours post-delivery?

      * Will I stay in the same room as the delivery, or will I be moved to a postpartum room?
      * Will I have a private room?
      * How long will I stay in the hospital?
      * What types of exams or tests will I receive after delivery?
      * What exams or tests will by baby receive after delivery?
      * What will my pain management options be?
      * How often will my OB/GYN visit? How often will my baby's pediatrician visit?
      * If I require a Cesarean birth (C-section), how will that affect my care? 

## Alternate Names

What to ask your doctor about hospital care for mom

## References

American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists website. ACOG Committee
Opinion. Optimizing postpartum care. Number 736, May 2018.
www.acog.org/Resources-And-Publications/Committee-Opinions/Committee-on-
Obstetric-Practice/Optimizing-Postpartum-Care. Accessed July 10, 2019.

Isley MM, Katz VL. Postpartum care and long-term health considerations. In:
Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al., eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 23.

## Review Date 6/30/2019

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Childbirth

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

