Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000545.htm    
                                Description: You have a big job as the labor coach. You are the main person who will:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tips for labor coaches

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000545.htm

# Tips for labor coaches

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You have a big job as the labor coach. You are the main person who will:

      * Help the mother as labor begins at home.
      * Stay and comfort her through labor and the birth.

Whether you are helping the mother breathe or giving her a backrub, you will
also be a familiar face on a hectic day. Just being there counts for a lot.
Here are some tips for getting prepared.

## Before the big day Arrives

Labor coaches should go to childbirth classes with the mother-to-be before her
due date. These classes will help you learn how to comfort and support her
when the big day arrives.

Get to know the hospital. Take a tour of the hospital prior to the birth. A
tour may be part of the childbirth classes. Talk with the staff on the labor
and delivery unit to get an idea of what will happen on the big day.

Know what the mom expects. You and the mother should talk ahead of time about
what should happen on the day of delivery.

      * Does the mother-to-be want to use breathing techniques?
      * Does she want you to be hands-on?
      * How can you help soothe her pain?
      * How involved does she want the midwife to be?
      * When does she want to get pain medicine?

Natural childbirth is very hard work. A woman may decide on natural childbirth
at first, but find that the pain is too much to bear when she is in labor.
Talk with her ahead of time about how she wants you to respond at this point.

Write down a plan. A written plan for the labor and delivery will help make
things clear ahead of time. Of course, when the contractions are in high gear,
many of those decisions may change. This is OK. Give her your full support
around how she wants to get through her labor and delivery.

## When the day Arrives

You might be at the hospital for many hours. So remember to bring things to
the hospital for yourself, such as:

      * Snacks
      * Books or magazines
      * Your music player and headphones or small speakers
      * A change of clothes
      * Toiletries
      * Comfortable walking shoes
      * Pillows 

It may take a long time for the baby to be born. Be prepared to wait. Labor
and delivery can be a long process. Be patient.

## At the hospital

When you are at the hospital:

      * Be an advocate. There may be times when the mother needs something from the doctors or nurses. She may need for you to speak up for her.
      * Make decisions. At times you will have to make decisions for the mother. For example, if she is in severe pain and can't speak for herself, you may decide it is time to find a nurse or doctor who can help.
      * Encourage the mother. Labor is hard work. You can cheer her on and let her know that she is doing a good job.
      * Ease her discomfort. You can massage the mother's lower back or help her take warm showers to ease the pains of childbirth.
      * Help her find a distraction. As labor gets more painful, it will help to have a distraction, or something that will take her mind off of what is happening. Some people bring items from home, like a photo or a teddy bear that the mother can focus on. Others find something in the hospital room, like a spot on the wall or on the ceiling.
      * Be flexible. The mother will get so focused during the contractions that she may not want or need you at all. She may ignore you or may get angry at you or others in the room. Don't take anything said during labor personally. It will all be a blur after the baby is born.
      * Remember, just having you there will mean so much to the mother. Having a child is a very emotional journey. You are being helpful by just being there every step of the way.

## Alternative Names

Pregnancy - labor coach; Delivery - labor coach

## References

DONA International. What is a doula? www.dona.org/what-is-a-doula. Accessed
June 12, 2018.

Kilpatrick S, Garrison E. Normal labor and delivery. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR,
Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 12.

Thorp JM, Laughon SK. Clinical aspects of normal and abnormal labor. In:
Creasy RK, Resnick R, Iams JD, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, eds. _Creasy
and Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 43.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Childbirth

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

