Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007413.htm    
                                Description: Spinal and epidural anesthesia are procedures that deliver medicines that numb parts of your body to block pain. They are given through shots in or around the spine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Spinal and epidural anesthesia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007413.htm

# Spinal and epidural anesthesia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Spinal and epidural anesthesia are procedures that deliver medicines that numb
parts of your body to block pain. They are given through shots in or around
the spine.

## Description

The doctor who gives you epidural or spinal anesthesia is called an
anesthesiologist.

First, the area of your back where the needle is inserted is cleaned with a
special solution. The area may also be numbed with a local anesthetic.

You'll likely receive fluids through an intravenous line (IV) in a vein. You
may receive medicine through the IV to help you relax.

For an epidural:

      * The doctor injects medicine just outside of the sac of fluid around your spinal cord. This is called the epidural space.
      * The medicine numbs, or blocks feeling in a certain part of your body so that you either feel less pain or no pain at all depending on the procedure. The medicine begins to take effect in about 10 to 20 minutes. It works well for longer procedures. Women often have an epidural during childbirth.
      * A small tube (catheter) is often left in place. You can receive more medicine through the catheter to help control your pain during or after your procedure. 

For a spinal:

      * The doctor injects medicine into the fluid around your spinal cord. This is usually done only once, so you will not need to have a catheter placed.
      * The medicine begins to take effect right away. 

Your pulse, blood pressure and oxygen level in your blood are checked during
the procedure. After the procedure, you will have a bandage where the needle
was inserted.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Spinal and epidural anesthesia work well for certain procedures and do not
require placing a breathing tube into the windpipe (trachea). People usually
recover their senses much faster. Sometimes, they have to wait for the
anesthetic to wear off so they can walk or urinate.

Spinal anesthesia is often used for genital, urinary tract, or lower body
procedures.

Epidural anesthesia is often used during labor and delivery, and surgery in
the pelvis and legs.

Epidural and spinal anesthesia are often used when:

      * The procedure or labor is too painful without any pain medicine.
      * The procedure is in the belly, legs, or feet.
      * Your body can remain in a comfortable position during your procedure.
      * You want fewer systemic medicines and less "hangover" than you would have from general anesthesia. 

## Risks

Spinal and epidural anesthesia are generally safe. Ask your doctor about these
possible complications:

      * Allergic reaction to the anesthesia used
      * Bleeding around the spinal column (hematoma)
      * Difficulty urinating
      * Drop in blood pressure
      * Infection in your spine (meningitis or abscess)
      * Nerve damage
      * Seizures (this is rare)
      * Severe headache

## Before the Procedure

Tell your health care provider:

      * If you are or could be pregnant
      * What medicines you are taking, including medicines, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription

During the days before the procedure:

      * Tell your doctor about any allergies or health conditions you have, what medicines you are taking, and what anesthesia or sedation you have had before.
      * If your procedure is planned, you may be asked to stop taking aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), warfarin (Coumadin), and any other blood thinners.
      * Ask your doctor which medicines you should still take on the day of your procedure.
      * Arrange for a responsible adult to drive you to and from the hospital or clinic.
      * If you smoke, try to stop. Ask your provider for help quitting.

On the day of the procedure:

      * Follow instructions on when to stop eating and drinking.
      * Do not drink alcohol the night before and the day of your procedure.
      * Take the medicines your doctor told you to take with a small sip of water.
      * Follow instructions on when to arrive at the hospital. Be sure to arrive on time.

## After the Procedure

After either type of anesthesia:

      * You lie in bed until you have feeling in your legs and can walk. 
      * You may feel sick to your stomach and be dizzy. These side effects usually soon go away.
      * You may be tired.

The nurse may ask you to try to urinate. This is to make sure your bladder
muscles are working. Anesthesia relaxes the bladder muscles, making it hard to
urinate. This can lead to a bladder infection.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people feel no pain during spinal and epidural anesthesia and recover
fully.

## Alternative Names

Intrathecal anesthesia; Subarachnoid anesthesia; Epidural

## Patient Instructions

      * Anesthesia - what to ask your doctor - adult
      * Anesthesia - what to ask your doctor - child
      * Spine surgery - discharge

## References

Hernandez A, Sherwood ER. Anesthesiology principles, pain management, and
conscious sedation. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL,
eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis of Modern Surgical
Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 14.

Macfarlane AJR, Brull R, Chan VWS. Spinal, epidural, and caudal anesthesia.
In: Pardo MC, Miller RD, eds. _Basics of Anesthesia_. 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 17.

## Review Date 4/15/2019

Updated by: James Cyriac, MD, Anesthesiologist, Kaiser Permanente, Portland,
OR. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David
Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Anesthesia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anesthesia_thumb.jpg)Anesthesia
_Read more_

![Childbirth](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Childbirth_thumb.jpg)Childbirth
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

