Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000567.htm    
                                Description: Birth plans are guides that parents-to-be make to help their health care providers best support them during labor and delivery.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

What to include in your birth plan

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000567.htm

# What to include in your birth plan

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Birth plans are guides that parents-to-be make to help their health care
providers best support them during labor and delivery.

## Deciding About Your Birth Plan

There are lot of things to consider before you make a birth plan. This is a
great time to learn about the various practices, procedures, pain relief
methods, and other options that are available during childbirth.

Your birth plan can be very specific or very open. For example, some women
know they want to try to have an unmedicated, or "natural," childbirth, and
others know they absolutely do not want to have an unmedicated childbirth.

It's important to stay flexible. Keep in mind that some of the things you want
may not be possible. So you may want to think about them as your birth
preferences, rather than a plan.

      * You may change your mind about certain things when you are actually in labor.
      * Your provider may feel that certain steps are needed for your health or your baby's health, even though they are not what you wanted. 

Talk to your partner as you make your birth plan. Also talk with your doctor
or midwife about your birth plan. Your provider can guide you in medical
decisions about the birth. You may be limited in your choices because:

      * Your health insurance coverage may not cover every wish in your birth plan.
      * The hospital may not be able to provide you with some of the options you may want. 

Your doctor or midwife can also talk to you about risks and benefits of some
of the options you want for your birth. You may have to fill out forms or
releases ahead of time for certain options.

Once you've completed your birth plan, be sure to share it with your doctor or
midwife well before your delivery date. Also, leave a copy with the hospital
or birthing center where you will deliver your baby.

## How to Write a Birth Plan

Your doctor, midwife, or the hospital where you will deliver may have a form
that you can fill out to create a birth plan.

You can also find sample birth plans and templates in books and websites for
pregnant moms.

Even if you use a form or checklist to write your birth plan, you can add
other preferences that the form does not address. You can make it as simple or
detailed as you like.

Below are many of the things you may want to think about as you create your
birth plan.

## About the Birthing Room

      * What atmosphere do you want for labor and delivery? Do you want music? Lights? Pillows? Photos? Make a list of items you want to bring with you.
      * Who do you want to be with you during labor? During delivery?
      * Will you include your other children? In-laws and grandparents?
      * Is there anyone you want kept out of the room?
      * Do you want your partner or coach to be with you the entire time? What do you want your partner or coach to do for you?

## About Labor and Delivery

      * What type of birth are you planning?
      * Do you want to stand up, lie down, use a shower, or walk around during labor?
      * Is there one birthing position you prefer over others?
      * Would you like to have a mirror so you can see your baby being delivered?
      * Do you want fetal monitoring?
      * Do you want treatments to move labor along faster?
      * What are your feelings about episiotomy?
      * Do you want to film the birth of your baby? If so, check with the birthing center or hospital ahead of time. Some hospitals have rules about video-recording births.
      * Do you have strong feelings about assisted delivery (the use of forceps or vacuum extraction)?
      * If you need to have a cesarean delivery (C-section), do you want your coach or partner to be with you during the surgery?

## Pain Relief During Labor

      * Do you want to try to give birth without pain medicine, or do you want medicine for pain relief? Would you like to have an epidural for pain relief during labor?
      * Would you like to be able to labor in a tub or shower, if allowed, at the hospital?
      * How can your labor coach or partner help soothe your pain?

## Right After Your Baby is Delivered

      * Who do you want to cut the umbilical cord? Do you want to save or donate the cord blood?
      * Do you want to hold your baby as soon as it is born, or do you want the baby washed and clothed first?
      * Do you have wishes about how to bond with your baby after it is born?
      * Are you planning to breastfeed? If so, do you want your baby to stay in your room after delivery?

## Postpartum Care

      * Would you like to avoid pacifiers or supplements, unless ordered by your baby's doctor?
      * Do you want anyone from the hospital to help you with breastfeeding? Would you like someone to talk to you about bottle feeding and other baby care issues?
      * Do you want a male baby to be circumcised (extra foreskin removed from penis)? 

## Alternative Names

Pregnancy - birth plan

## References

Hawkins JL, Bucklin BA. Obstetrical anesthesia. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR,
Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 16.

Kilpatrick S, Garrison E. Normal labor and delivery. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR,
Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 12.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Childbirth

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

