Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000508.htm    
                                Description: If you have never given birth before, you may think you will just know when the time comes. In reality, it is not always easy to know when you are going into labor. The steps leading up to labor can drag    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Am I in labor?

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000508.htm

# Am I in labor?

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If you have never given birth before, you may think you will just know when
the time comes. In reality, it is not always easy to know when you are going
into labor. The steps leading up to labor can drag on for days.

Keep in mind that your due date is just a general idea of when your labor may
start. Normal term labor can start any time between 3 weeks before and 2 weeks
after this date.

## False Labor (Braxton Hicks Contractions)

Most pregnant women feel mild contractions before true labor begins. These are
called Braxton Hicks contractions, which:

      * Are typically short
      * Are not painful
      * DO NOT come at regular intervals
      * Are not accompanied by bleeding, leaking fluid, or decreased fetal movement 

This stage is called "prodromal" or "latent" labor.

## Other Signs That Labor is Near

**Lightening.** This happens when your baby's head "drops" down into your
pelvis.

      * Your belly will look lower. It will be easier for you to breathe because the baby is not putting pressure on your lungs.
      * You may need to urinate more often because the baby is pressing on your bladder.
      * For first-time mothers, lightening often happens a few weeks before birth. For women who have had babies before, it may not happen until labor has begun. 

**Bloody show.** If you have bloody or brownish discharge from your vagina, it
may mean your cervix has begun to dilate. The mucous plug that sealed your
cervix for the last 9 months may be visible. This is a good sign. But active
labor may still be days away.

**Your baby moves less.** If you feel less movement, call your health care
provider, as sometimes decreased movement can mean that the baby is in
trouble.

**Your water breaks.** When the amniotic sac (bag of fluid around the baby)
breaks, you will feel fluid leak from your vagina. It may come out in a
trickle or a gush.

      * For most women, contractions come within 24 hours after the bag of water breaks.
      * Even if contractions do not begin, let your provider know as soon as you think your water has broken. 

**Diarrhea.** Some women have the urge to go to the bathroom often to empty
their bowels. If this happens and your stools are looser than normal, you may
be going into labor.

**Nesting.** There is no science behind the theory, but plenty of women feel
the sudden urge to "nest" right before labor starts. If you feel the need to
vacuum the entire house at 3 a.m., or finish your work in the baby's nursery,
you may be getting ready for labor.

## True Labor

In real labor, your contractions will:

      * Come regularly and get closer together
      * Last from 30 to 70 seconds, and will get longer
      * Not stop, no matter what you do
      * Radiate (reach) into your lower back and upper belly
      * Get stronger or become more intense as time goes on
      * Make you unable to talk to other people or laugh at a joke 

## When to Call the Doctor or Midwife

Call your provider right away if you have:

      * Leaking amniotic fluid
      * Decreased fetal movement
      * Any vaginal bleeding other than light spotting
      * Regular, painful contractions every 5 to 10 minutes for 60 minutes

Call for any other reason if you are unsure what to do.

## Alternative Names

False labor; Braxton Hicks contractions; Prodromal labor; Latent labor;
Pregnancy - labor

## References

Kilatrick S, Garrison E. Normal labor and delivery. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR,
Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 12.

Thorp JM, Laughon KS. Clinical aspects of normal and abnormal labor. In:
Creasy RK, Resnik R, Iams JD, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, eds. _Creasy
and Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 43.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Childbirth

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

