Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000960.htm    
                                Description: At about 36 weeks of pregnancy, you    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Questions to ask your doctor about labor and delivery

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000960.htm

# Questions to ask your doctor about labor and delivery

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

At about 36 weeks of pregnancy, you'll be expecting the arrival of your baby
soon. To help you plan ahead, now is a good time to talk to your doctor about
labor and delivery and what you can do to prepare for it.

## Questions

When do I need to go to the hospital?

      * How will I know that the baby is coming and it's time to go to the hospital?
      * How will I know my labor pains have begun?
      * What is false labor? How do I identify true labor?
      * What should I do if my water breaks or I notice a bloody discharge from vagina?
      * What if I do not get labor pains even after 40 weeks of pregnancy?
      * What are the emergency signs to watch out for? 

What will happen during labor?

      * How painful will it be?
      * What can I do to reduce pain during labor? Breathing exercises?
      * Will I be given medicines for pain relief?
      * What is an epidural? What are the side effects of having one?
      * Can I eat or drink during labor? What kind of food can I eat? Is there something I need to avoid? 

How much time will it take for the delivery to occur once my labor pains have
begun?

      * What are my chances of having a normal delivery?
      * What kind of exercises can help improve my chances of having a normal delivery?
      * Who can accompany me in the labor room?
      * Do my previous delivery conditions or complications affect this pregnancy in any way? 

How many days will I need to stay in the hospital?

      * What is the normal period of hospitalization for normal a delivery? For a cesarean delivery?
      * Can someone from my family stay with me in the hospital?
      * What kind of clothes will I need? Will I wear a hospital gown or I can bring my own clothes? 

What do I need to bring with me for the baby?

      * Do I need to bring clothes with me for the baby?
      * Does the hospital have facility for cord blood storage?
      * How long will the baby need to stay in the hospital?
      * How soon can I breast feed the baby? What if I do not produce enough milk?
      * Do I need to bring a car seat to the hospital in order to safely bring the baby home? 

## Alternative Names

Questions - labor; Questions - delivery; What to ask your doctor - labor and
delivery; Questions - how to prepare for delivery

## Images

      * ![Childbirth](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1082t.jpg)Childbirth

## References

Kilpatrick S, Garrison E. Normal labor and delivery. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR,
Simpson JL, et al,. eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 12.

Rosene-Montella K. Common medical problems in pregnancy. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap:239.

Vasquez V, Desai S. Labor and delivery and their complications. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and
Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 181.

## Review Date 8/22/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Childbirth

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

