Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000543.htm    
                                Description: The arrival of your new son or daughter is a time of excitement and joy. It is often also a hectic time, so it can be hard to remember to pack everything that you will need at the hospital.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

What to bring to your labor and delivery

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000543.htm

# What to bring to your labor and delivery

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The arrival of your new son or daughter is a time of excitement and joy. It is
often also a hectic time, so it can be hard to remember to pack everything
that you will need at the hospital.

About a month before your baby's due date, make sure you have the items below.
Pack as many beforehand as you can. Use this checklist as a guide to get
organized for the big event.

## Items for Mom

The hospital will supply you with a gown, slippers, disposable underwear, and
basic toiletries. While it is nice to have your own clothes with you, labor
and the first few days postpartum are most often a very messy time, so you may
not want to wear your brand-new lingerie. Items you should bring:

      * Nightgown and bathrobe
      * Slippers
      * Bra and nursing bra
      * Breast pads
      * Socks (several pair)
      * Underwear (several pair)
      * Hair ties (scrunchies)
      * Toiletries: toothbrush, toothpaste, hair brush, lip balm, lotion, and deodorant
      * Comfortable and loose fitting clothing to wear home 

## Items for Baby

Items to bring for the new baby:

      * Going home outfit for baby
      * Receiving blanket
      * Warm clothing to wear home and a heavy bunting or blanket (if the weather is cold)
      * Baby socks
      * Baby hat (such as for cold weather climates)
      * Baby car seat. A car seat is required by law and should be properly installed in your car before you go to the hospital. (The National Highway and Safety Administration (NHTSA) -- www.nhtsa.gov/equipment/car-seats-and-booster-seats#age-size-recÂ provides recommendations on finding the right care seat and installing it correctly.) 

## Items for Labor Coach

Items to bring for the labor coach:

      * Stopwatch or watch with a second hand for timing contractions
      * Phone list of contacts to announce your baby's birth to friends and family, including a cell phone, phone card, calling card, or change for calls
      * Snacks and drinks for the coach, and, if allowed by the hospital, for you
      * Massage rollers, massage oils to relieve back pain from labor
      * The object you have chosen to use to focus your attention during labor (the "focal point") 

## Items the Hospital Will Need From You

Items you will need to bring to the hospital:

      * Health plan insurance card
      * Hospital admissions papers (you may have to be pre-admitted)
      * Pregnancy medical file, including over-the-counter and prescription medicine information
      * Birth preferences
      * Contact information of the health care provider who will be caring for your baby, so the hospital can let the office know your baby has arrived 

## Other Important Items

Other items to bring with you:

      * Money for parking
      * Camera
      * Books, magazines
      * Music (portable music player and favorite tapes or CDs)
      * Cell phone and charger
      * Items that comfort or soothe you, such as crystals, prayer beads, lockets, and photographs 

## Alternative Names

Prenatal care - what to bring

## References

Carlo WA. The newborn infant. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 94.

Kilpatrick S, Garrison E. Normal labor and delivery. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR,
Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 12.

Wesley SE, Allen E, Bartsch H. Care of the newborn. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 21.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Childbirth

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

