Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000482.htm    
                                Description: An episiotomy is a minor surgery that widens the opening of the vagina during childbirth. It is a cut to the perineum -- the skin and muscles between the vaginal opening and anus.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Episiotomy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000482.htm

# Episiotomy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An episiotomy is a minor surgery that widens the opening of the vagina during
childbirth. It is a cut to the perineum -- the skin and muscles between the
vaginal opening and anus.

## What are the Risks?

There are some risks to having an episiotomy. Because of the risks,
episiotomies are not as common as they used to be. The risks include:

      * The cut may tear and become larger during the delivery. The tear may reach into the muscle around the rectum, or even into the rectum itself.
      * There may be more blood loss.
      * The cut and the stitches may get infected.
      * Sex may be painful for the first few months after birth. 

Sometimes, an episiotomy can be helpful even with the risks.

## Will I Need an Episiotomy?

Many women get through childbirth without tearing on their own, and without
needing an episiotomy. In fact, recent studies show that not having an
episiotomy is best for most women in labor.

Episiotomies don't heal better than tears. They often take longer to heal
since the cut is often deeper than a natural tear. In both cases, the cut or
tear must be stitched and properly cared for after childbirth. At times, an
episiotomy may be needed to ensure the best outcome for you and your baby.

      * Labor is stressful for the baby and the pushing phase needs to be shortened to decrease problems for the baby.
      * The baby's head or shoulders are too big for the mother's vaginal opening.
      * The baby is in a breech position (feet or buttocks coming first) and there is a problem during delivery.
      * Instruments (forceps or vacuum extractor) are needed to help get the baby out.

You are pushing as the baby's head is close to coming out, and a tear forms
toward the urethral area.

## What Happens if I Need an Episiotomy?

Just before your baby is born and as the head is about to crown, your doctor
or midwife will give you a shot to numb the area (if you have not already had
an epidural).

Next, a small incision (cut) is made. There are 2 types of cuts: median and
mediolateral.

      * A median incision is the most common type. It is a straight cut in the middle of the area between the vagina and anus (perineum).
      * The mediolateral incision is made at an angle. It is less likely to tear through to the anus, but it takes longer to heal than the median cut.

Your health care provider will then deliver the baby through the enlarged
opening.

Next, your provider will deliver the placenta (afterbirth). Then the cut will
be stitched closed.

## How can I Avoid an Episiotomy?

You can do things to strengthen your body for labor that may lower your
chances of needing an episiotomy.

      * Practice Kegel exercises.
      * Perform perineal massage during the 4 to 6 weeks before birth.
      * Practice the techniques you learned in childbirth class to control your breathing and your urge to push. 

Keep in mind, even if you do these things, you may still need an episiotomy.
Your provider will decide if you should have one based on what happens during
your labor.

## Alternative Names

Labor - episiotomy; Vaginal delivery - episiotomy

## Images

      * ![Episiotomy - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7085t.jpg)Episiotomy - series

## References

Baggish MS. Episiotomy. In: Baggish MS, Karram MM, eds. _Atlas of Pelvic
Anatomy and Gynecologic Surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 81.

Kilpatrick S, Garrison E. Normal labor and delivery. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR,
Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 12.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Childbirth

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

