Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001090.htm    
                                Description: Pulmonary arteriovenous fistula is an abnormal connection between an artery and vein in the lungs. As a result, blood passes through the lungs without receiving enough oxygen.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pulmonary arteriovenous fistula

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001090.htm

# Pulmonary arteriovenous fistula

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pulmonary arteriovenous fistula is an abnormal connection between an artery
and vein in the lungs. As a result, blood passes through the lungs without
receiving enough oxygen.

## Causes

Pulmonary arteriovenous fistulas are usually the result of abnormal
development of the blood vessels of the lung. Most occur in people with Rendu-
Osler-Weber disease (ROWD), now commonly called hereditary hemorrhagic
telangiectasia (HHT). These people often have abnormal blood vessels in many
other parts of the body.

Fistulas also can be a complication of liver disease or lung injury, although
this is much less common.

## Symptoms

Many people have no symptoms. When symptoms occur, they can include:

      * Bloody sputum
      * Difficulty breathing
      * Difficulty exercising 
      * Nosebleeds 
      * Shortness of breath with exertion
      * Chest painÂ 
      * Blue skin (cyanosis)
      * Clubbing of the fingers

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you. The exam may show:

      * Abnormal blood vessels (telangiectasias) on the skin or mucus membranes
      * Abnormal sound, called a murmur when a stethoscope is placed over the abnormal blood vessel
      * Low oxygen when measure with a pulse oximeter

Â Tests that may be done include:

      * Arterial blood gas, with and without oxygen
      * Complete blood count (CBC)
      * Chest x-ray
      * Chest CT scan
      * EchocardiogramÂ to check the function of the heart
      * Lung function tests
      * Perfusion radionuclide lung scanÂ to measure breathing and circulation (perfusion) in all areas of the lungs
      * Pulmonary arteriogramÂ to view the lung arteries

## Treatment

A small number of people who have no symptoms may not need treatment. For most
people with fistulas, the treatment of choice is to block the fistula during
an arteriogram (embolization).

Some people may need surgery to remove the abnormal vessels and nearby lung
tissue.

When arteriovenous fistulas are caused by liver disease, the treatment is a
liver transplant.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook for people with HHT is not as good as for those without HHT. For
people without HHT, surgery to remove the abnormal vessels usually has a good
outcome, and the condition is not likely to return.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Bleeding in the lung
      * Stroke due to blood clot that travels from the lungs to the arms, legs, or brain (paradoxical venous embolism)
      * Infection in the brain or heart valve, especially in patients with HHT

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you often have nosebleeds or difficulty breathing,
especially if you also have a personal or familyÂ history of HHT.

## Prevention

Because HHT is often genetic, prevention is not usually possible. Genetic
counselingÂ may help in some cases.

## Alternative Names

Arteriovenous malformation - pulmonary

## References

Shovlin CL, Jackson JE. Pulmonary vascular abnormalities. In: Broaddus VC,
Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 61.

Stowell J, Gilman MD, Walker CM. Congenital thoracic malformations. In:
Shepard JO, ed. _Thoracic Imaging: The Requisites_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 8.

Webb GD, Smallhorn JF, Therrien J, Redington AN. Congenital heart disease in
the adult and pediatric patient. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL,
Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of
Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 75.

## Review Date 7/20/2018

Updated by: Allen J. Blaivas, DO, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and
Sleep Medicine, VA New Jersey Health Care System, Clinical Assistant
Professor, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, East Orange, NJ. Review provided
by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Arteriovenous
Malformations](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ArteriovenousMalformations_thumb.jpg)Arteriovenous
Malformations _Read more_

![Fistulas](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Fistulas_thumb.jpg)Fistulas _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

