Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000779.htm    
                                Description: A cerebral arteriovenous malformation (AVM) is an abnormal connection between the arteries and veins in the brain that usually forms before birth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cerebral arteriovenous malformation

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000779.htm

# Cerebral arteriovenous malformation

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A cerebral arteriovenous malformation (AVM) is an abnormal connection between
the arteries and veins in the brain that usually forms before birth.

## Causes

The cause of cerebral AVM is unknown. An AVM occurs when arteries in the brain
connect directly to nearby veins without having the normal small vessels
(capillaries) between them.

AVMs vary in size and location in the brain.

An AVM rupture occurs because of pressure and damage to the blood vessel. This
allows blood to leak (hemorrhage) into the brain or surrounding tissues and
reduces blood flow to the brain.

Cerebral AVMs are rare. Although the condition is present at birth, symptoms
may occur at any age. Ruptures happen most often in people ages 15 to 20. It
can also occur later in life. Some people with an AVM also have brain
aneurysms.

## Symptoms

In about one half of people with AVMs, the first symptoms are those of a
stroke caused by bleeding in the brain.

Symptoms of an AVM that is bleeding are:

      * Confusion
      * Ear noise/buzzing (also called pulsatile tinnitus)
      * Headache in one or more parts of the head, may seem like a migraine
      * Problems walking
      * Seizures

Symptoms due to pressure on one area of the brain include:

      * Vision problems
      * Dizziness
      * Muscle weakness in an area of the body or face
      * Numbness in an area of the body 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical examination. You'll be asked
about your symptoms, with a focus on your nervous system problems. Tests that
may be used to diagnose an AVM include:

      * Brain angiogram
      * Computed tomography (CT) angiogram
      * Head MRI
      * Electroencephalogram (EEG)
      * Head CT scan
      * Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA)

## Treatment

Finding the best treatment for an AVM that is found on an imaging test, but is
not causing any symptoms, can be difficult. Your provider will discuss with
you:

      * The risk that your AVM will break open (rupture). If this happens, there may be permanent brain damage.
      * The risk of any brain damage if you have one of the surgeries listed below.

Your provider may discuss different factors that may increase your risk of
bleeding, including:

      * Current or planned pregnancies
      * What the AVM looks like on imaging tests
      * Size of the AVM
      * Your age
      * Your symptoms

A bleeding AVM is a medical emergency. The goal of treatment is to prevent
further complications by controlling the bleeding and seizures and, if
possible, removing the AVM.

Three surgical treatments are available. Some treatments are used together.

Open brain surgery removes the abnormal connection. The surgery is done
through an opening made in the skull.

Embolization (endovascular treatment):

      * A catheter is guided through a small cut in your groin. It enters an artery and then into the small blood vessels in your brain where the aneurysm is located.
      * A glue-like substance is injected into the abnormal vessels. This stops the blood flow in the AVM and reduces the risk of bleeding. This may be the first choice for some kinds of AVMs, or if surgery can't be done. 

Stereotactic radiosurgery:

      * Radiation is aimed directly on the area of the AVM.Â This causes scarring and shrinkage of the AVM and reduces the risk of bleeding.
      * It is particularly useful for small AVMs deep in the brain that are difficult to remove by surgery. 

Medicines to stop seizures are prescribed if needed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Some people, whose first symptom is excessive brain bleeding, will die. Others
may have permanent seizures and brain and nervous system problems. AVMs that
do not cause symptoms by the time people reach their late 40s or early 50s are
more likely to remain stable, andÂ in rare cases, cause symptoms.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Brain damage
      * Intracerebral hemorrhage
      * Language difficulties
      * Numbness of any part of the face or body
      * Persistent headache
      * Seizures
      * Subarachnoid hemorrhage
      * Vision changes
      * Water on the brain (hydrocephalus)
      * Weakness in part of the body 

Possible complications of open brain surgery include:

      * Brain swelling
      * Hemorrhage
      * Seizure
      * Stroke 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you have:

      * Numbness in parts of the body
      * Seizures
      * Severe headache
      * Vomiting
      * Weakness
      * Other symptoms of a ruptured AVM 

Also seek medical attention right away if you have a first-time seizure,
because AVM may be the cause of seizures.

## Alternative Names

AVM - cerebral; Arteriovenous hemangioma; Stroke - AVM; Hemorrhagic stroke -
AVM

## Patient Instructions

      * Brain surgery - discharge
      * Headache - what to ask your doctor 
      * Stereotactic radiosurgery - discharge 

## Images

      * ![Arteries of the brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9441t.jpg)Arteries of the brain

## References

Lazzaro MA, Zaidat OO. Principles of neurointerventional therapy. In: Daroff
RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 56.

Ortega-Barnett J, Mohanty A, Desai SK, Patterson JT. Neurosurgery. In:
Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of
Surgery._ 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 67.

Stapf C. Arteriovenous malformations and other vascular anomalies. In: Grotta
JC, Albers GW, Broderick JP, et al, eds. _Stroke: Pathophysiology, Diagnosis,
and Management_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 30.

## Review Date 10/18/2018

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Arteriovenous
Malformations](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ArteriovenousMalformations_thumb.jpg)Arteriovenous
Malformations _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

