Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000716.htm    
                                Description: Cerebral palsy is a group of disorders that can involve brain, which affects nervous system functions, such as movement, learning, hearing, seeing, and thinking.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cerebral palsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000716.htm

# Cerebral palsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cerebral palsy is a group of disorders that can involve brain, which affects
nervous system functions, such as movement, learning, hearing, seeing, and
thinking.

There are several different types of cerebral palsy, including spastic,
dyskinetic, ataxic, hypotonic, and mixed.

![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous
system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/8679.jpg)

## Causes

Cerebral palsy is caused by injuries or abnormalities of the brain. Most of
these problems occur as the baby grows in the womb. But they can happen at any
time during the first 2 years of life, while the baby's brain is still
developing.

In some people with cerebral palsy, parts of the brain are injured due to a
low level of oxygen (hypoxia) in those areas. It is not known why this occurs.

Premature infants have a slightly higher risk of developing cerebral palsy.
Cerebral palsy may also occur during early infancy as a result of several
conditions, including:

      * Bleeding in the brain
      * Brain infections (encephalitis, meningitis, herpes simplex infections)
      * Head injury
      * Infections in the mother during pregnancy (rubella)
      * Untreated jaundice
      * Injuries to brain during the childbirth process

In some cases, the cause of cerebral palsy is never determined.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of cerebral palsy can be very different between people with this
group of disorders. Symptoms may:

      * Be very mild or very severe
      * Only involve one side of the body or both sides
      * Be more pronounced in either the arms or legs, or involve both the arms and legs 

Symptoms are usually seen before a child is 2 years old. Sometimes symptoms
begin as early as 3 months. Parents may notice that their child is delayed in
reaching developmental stages such as sitting, rolling, crawling, or walking.

There are several different types of cerebral palsy. Some people have a mix of
symptoms.

Spastic cerebral palsy is the most common type. Symptoms include:

      * Muscles that are very tight and do not stretch. They may tighten even more over time.
      * Abnormal walk (gait) -- arms tucked in toward the sides, knees crossed or touching, legs make "scissors" movements, walk on the toes.
      * Joints are tight and do not open all the way (called joint contracture).
      * Muscle weakness or loss of movement in a group of muscles (paralysis).
      * Symptoms may affect one arm or leg, one side of the body, both legs, or both arms and legs. 

The following symptoms may occur in other types of cerebral palsy:

      * Abnormal movements (twisting, jerking, or writhing) of the hands, feet, arms, or legs while awake, which gets worse during periods of stress
      * Tremors
      * Unsteady gait
      * Loss of coordination
      * Floppy muscles, especially at rest, and joints that move around too much 

Other brain and nervous system symptoms may include:

      * Learning disabilities are common, but intelligence can be normal
      * Speech problems (dysarthria)
      * Hearing or vision problems
      * Seizures
      * Pain, especially in adults, which can be difficult to manage 

Eating and digestion symptoms:

      * Difficulty sucking or feeding in infants, or chewing and swallowing in older children and adults
      * Vomiting or constipation 

Other symptoms:

      * Increased drooling
      * Slower than normal growth
      * Irregular breathing
      * Urinary incontinence

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a full neurologic exam. In older people,
testing cognitive function is also important.

Other tests may be performed as needed, most often to rule out other
disorders:

      * Blood tests
      * CT scan of the head
      * Electroencephalogram (EEG)
      * Hearing screen
      * MRI of the head
      * Vision testing 

## Treatment

There is no cure for cerebral palsy. The goal of treatment is to help the
person be as independent as possible.

Treatment requires a team approach, including:

      * Primary care doctor
      * Dentist (dental check-ups are recommended around every 6 months)
      * Social worker
      * Nurses
      * Occupational, physical, and speech therapists
      * Other specialists, including a neurologist, rehabilitation physician, pulmonologist, and gastroenterologist 

Treatment is based on the person's symptoms and the need to prevent
complications.

Self and home care include:

      * Getting enough food and nutrition
      * Keeping the home safe
      * Performing exercises recommended by the providers
      * Practicing proper bowel care (stool softeners, fluids, fiber, laxatives, regular bowel habits)
      * Protecting the joints from injury 

Putting the child in regular schools is recommended unless physical
disabilities or mental development makes this impossible. Special education or
schooling may help.

The following may help with communication and learning:

      * Glasses
      * Hearing aids
      * Muscle and bone braces
      * Walking aids
      * Wheelchairs 

Physical therapy, occupational therapy, orthopedic help, or other treatments
may also be needed to help with daily activities and care.

Medicines may include:

      * Anticonvulsants to prevent or reduce the frequency of seizures
      * Botulinum toxin to help with spasticity and drooling
      * Muscle relaxants to reduce tremors and spasticity 

Surgery may be needed in some cases to:

      * Control gastroesophageal reflux
      * Cut certain nerves from the spinal cord to help with pain and spasticity
      * Place feeding tubes
      * Release joint contractures 

## Support Groups

Stress and burnout among parents and other caregivers of people with cerebral
palsy is common. Seek support and more information from organizations that
specialize in cerebral palsy.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Cerebral palsy is a life-long disorder. Long-term care may be required. The
disorder does not affect expected length of life. The amount of disability
varies.

Many adults are able to live in the community, either independently or with
different levels of help.

## Possible Complications

Cerebral palsy may lead to the following health problems:

      * Bone thinning (osteoporosis)
      * Bowel obstruction
      * Hip dislocation and arthritis in the hip joint
      * Injuries from falls
      * Pressure sores
      * Joint contractures
      * Pneumonia caused by choking
      * Poor nutrition
      * Reduced communication skills (sometimes)
      * Reduced intellect (sometimes)
      * Scoliosis
      * Seizures (in about half of the people who are affected by cerebral palsy)
      * Social stigma 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if symptoms of cerebral palsy develop, especially if you
know that an injury occurred during birth or early infancy.

## Prevention

Getting the proper prenatal care may reduce the risk for some rare causes of
cerebral palsy. In most cases though, the injury causing the disorder isÂ not
preventable.

Pregnant mothers with certain medical conditions may need to be followed in a
high-risk prenatal clinic.

## Alternative Names

Spastic paralysis; Paralysis - spastic; Spastic hemiplegia; Spastic diplegia;
Spastic quadriplegia

## Patient Instructions

      * Enteral nutrition - child - managing problems
      * Gastrostomy feeding tube - bolus
      * Jejunostomy feeding tube 

## Images

      * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Greenberg JM, Haberman B, Narendran V, Nathan AT, Schibler K. Neonatal
morbidities of prenatal and perinatal origin. In: Resnik R, Lockwood CJ, Moore
TR, Greene MF, Copel JA, Silver RM, eds. _Creasy and Resnik's Maternal-Fetal
Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 73.

Johnston MV. Encephalopathies. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 616.

Nass R, Sidhu R, Ross G. Autism and other developmental disabilities. In:
Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 90.

Oskoui M, Shevell MI, Swaiman KF. Cerebral palsy. In: Swaiman KF, Ashwal S,
Ferriero DM, et al, eds. _Swaiman's Pediatric Neurology: Principles and
Practice_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 97.

Verschuren O, Peterson MD, Balemans AC, Hurvitz EA. Exercise and physical
activity recommendations for people with cerebral palsy. _Dev Med Child
Neurol_. 2016;58(8):798-808. PMID: 26853808
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26853808.

## Review Date 6/23/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Cerebral
Palsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CerebralPalsy_thumb.jpg)Cerebral Palsy
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

