Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007314.htm    
                                Description: Absent pulmonary valve is a rare defect in which the pulmonary valve is either missing or poorly formed. Oxygen-poor blood flows through this valve from the heart to the lungs, where it picks up fresh    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Absent pulmonary valve

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007314.htm

# Absent pulmonary valve

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Absent pulmonary valve is a rare defect in which the pulmonary valve is either
missing or poorly formed. Oxygen-poor blood flows through this valve from the
heart to the lungs, where it picks up fresh oxygen. This condition is present
at birth (congenital).

![Absent pulmonary
valve](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/22695.jpg)

## Causes

Absent pulmonary valve occurs when the pulmonary valve does not form or
develop properly while the baby is in the mother's womb. When present, it
often occurs as part of a heart condition called tetralogy of Fallot. It is
found in about 3% to 6% of people who have tetralogy of Fallot.

![Tetralogy of Fallot](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18088.jpg)

When the pulmonary valve is missing or does not work well, blood does not flow
efficiently to the lungs to get enough oxygen.

In most cases, there is also a hole between the left and right ventricles of
the heart (ventricular septal defect). This defect will also lead to low-
oxygen blood being pumped out to the body.

The skin will have a blue appearance (cyanosis), because the body's blood
contains a low amount of oxygen.

Absent pulmonary valve also results in very enlarged (dilated) branch
pulmonary arteries (the arteries that carry blood to the lungs to pick up
oxygen). They can become so enlarged that they press on the tubes that bring
the oxygen into the lungs (bronchi). This causes breathing problems.

Other heart defects that can occur with absent pulmonary valve include:

      * Abnormal tricuspid valve
      * Atrial septal defect
      * Double outlet right ventricle
      * Ductus arteriosis
      * Endocardial cushion defect
      * Marfan syndrome
      * Tricuspid atresia
      * Absent left pulmonary artery 

Heart problems that occur with absent pulmonary valve may be due to defects in
certain genes.

## Symptoms

Symptoms can vary depending on which other defects the infant has, but may
include:

      * Blue coloring to the skin (cyanosis)
      * Coughing
      * Failure to thrive
      * Poor appetite
      * Rapid breathing
      * Respiratory failure
      * Wheezing 
![Cyanotic 'Tet spell'](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18134.jpg)

## Exams and Tests

Absent pulmonary valve may be diagnosed before the baby is born with a test
that uses sound waves to create an image of the heart (echocardiogram).

During an exam, the health care provider may hear a murmur in the infant's
chest.

Tests for absent pulmonary valve include:

      * A test to measure the electrical activity of the heart (electrocardiogram)
      * Heart CT scan
      * Chest x-ray
      * Echocardiogram
      * Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the heart 

## Treatment

Infants who have breathing symptoms typicallyÂ need surgery right away.
Infants without severe symptoms most often have surgery within the first 3 to
6 months of life.

Depending on the type of other heart defects the infant has, surgery may
involve:

      * Closing the hole in the wall between the left and right ventricles of the heart (ventricular septal defect)
      * Closing a blood vessel that connects the aorta to the pulmonary artery (ductus arteriosis)
      * Enlarging the flow from the right ventricle to the lungs 

Types of surgery for absent pulmonary valve include:

      * Moving the pulmonary artery to the front of the aorta and away from the airways
      * Rebuilding the artery wall in the lungs to reduce pressure on the airways (pulmonary plication and reduction arterioplasty)
      * Rebuilding the windpipe and breathing tubes to the lungs
      * Replacing the abnormal pulmonary valve with one taken from human or animal tissue 

Infants with severe breathing symptoms may need to get oxygen or be placed on
a breathing machine (ventilator) before and after surgery.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Without surgery, most infants who have severe lung complications will die.

In many cases, surgery can treat the condition and relieve symptoms. Outcomes
are most often very good.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Brain infection (abscess)
      * Lung collapse (atelectasis)
      * Pneumonia
      * Right-sided heart failure
      * Stroke 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your infant has symptoms of absent pulmonary valve. If
you have a family history of heart defects, talk to your provider before or
during pregnancy.

## Prevention

Although there is no way to prevent this condition, families may be evaluated
to determine their risk for congenital defects.

## Alternative Names

Absent pulmonary valve syndrome; Congenital absence of the pulmonary valve;
Pulmonary valve agenesis; Cyanotic heart disease - pulmonary valve; Congenital
heart disease - pulmonary valve; Birth defect heart - pulmonary valve

## Images

      * ![Absent pulmonary valve](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22695t.jpg)Absent pulmonary valve
      * ![Cyanotic 'Tet spell'](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18134t.jpg)Cyanotic 'Tet spell'
      * ![Tetralogy of Fallot](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18088t.jpg)Tetralogy of Fallot

## References

Bernstein D. Acyanotic congenital heart disease: regurgitant lesions. In:
Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 428.

Bernstein D. Cyanotic congenital heart lesions: lesions associated with
decreased pulmonary blood flow. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 430.

Scholz T, Reinking BE. Congenital heart disease. In: Gleason CA, Juul SE, eds.
_Avery's Diseases of the Newborn_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 55.

Webb GD, Smallhorn JF, Therrien J, Redington AN. Congenital heart disease in
the adult and pediatric patient. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL,
Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of
Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 75.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Congenital Heart
Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CongenitalHeartDefects_thumb.jpg)Congenital
Heart Defects _Read more_

![Heart Valve
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartValveDiseases_thumb.jpg)Heart
Valve Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

