Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007327.htm    
                                Description: Double inlet left ventricle (DILV) is a heart defect that is present from birth (congenital). It affects the valves and chambers of the heart. Babies born with this condition have only one working pumping    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Double inlet left ventricle

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007327.htm

# Double inlet left ventricle

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Double inlet left ventricle (DILV) is a heart defect that is present from
birth (congenital). It affects the valves and chambers of the heart. Babies
born with this condition have only one working pumping chamber (ventricle) in
their heart.

## Causes

DILV is one of several heart defects known as single (or common) ventricle
defects. People with DILV have a large left ventricle and a small right
ventricle. The left ventricle is the pumping chamber of the heart that sends
oxygen-rich blood to the body. The right ventricle is the pumping chamber that
sends oxygen-poor blood to the lungs.

![Double inlet left
ventricle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/22700.jpg)

In the normal heart, the right and left ventricles receive blood from the
right and left atria. The atria are upper chambers of the heart. Oxygen-poor
blood returning from the body flows to the right atrium and right ventricle.
The right ventricle then pumps blood to the pulmonary artery. This is the
blood vessel that carries blood to the lungs to pick up oxygen.

Blood with fresh oxygen returns to the left atrium and left ventricle. The
aorta then carries oxygen-rich blood to the rest of the body from the left
ventricle. The aorta is the major artery leading out of the heart.

In people with DILV, only the left ventricle is developed. Both atria empty
blood into this ventricle. This means that oxygen-rich blood mixes with
oxygen-poor blood. The mixture is then pumped to both the body and the lungs.

DILV can happen if the large blood vessels arising from the heart are in the
wrong positions. The aorta arises from the small right ventricle and the
pulmonary artery arises from the left ventricle. It can also occur when the
arteries are in normal positions and arise from the usual ventricles. In this
case, blood flows from the left to right ventricle through a hole between the
chambers called a ventricular septal defect (VSD).

DILV is very rare. The exact cause is unknown. The problem most likely occurs
early in the pregnancy, when the baby's heart develops. People with DILV often
also have other heart problems, such as:

      * Coarctation of the aorta (narrowing of the aorta)
      * Pulmonary atresia (pulmonary valve of the heart is not formed properly)
      * Pulmonary valve stenosis (narrowing of the pulmonary valve)
      * ## Symptoms

Symptoms of DILV may include:

      * Bluish color to the skin and lips (cyanosis) due to low oxygen in the blood
      * Failure to gain weight and grow
      * Pale skin (pallor)
      * Poor feeding from becoming tired easily
      * Sweating
      * Swollen legs or abdomen
      * Trouble breathing 

## Exams and Tests

Signs of DILV may include:

      * Abnormal heart rhythm, as seen on an electrocardiogram
      * Buildup of fluid around the lungs
      * Heart failure
      * Heart murmur
      * Rapid heartbeat 

Tests to diagnose DILV may include:

      * Chest x-ray
      * Measurement of the electrical activity in the heart (electrocardiogram, or ECG)
      * Ultrasound exam of the heart (echocardiogram)
      * Passing a thin, flexible tube into the heart to examine the arteries (cardiac catheterization)
      * Heart MRI

## Treatment

Surgery is needed to improve blood circulation through the body and into the
lungs. The most common surgeries to treat DILV are a series ofÂ two toÂ three
operations. These surgeries are similar to the ones used to treat hypoplastic
left heart syndrome and tricuspid atresia.

The first surgery may be needed when the baby is only a few days old. In most
cases, the baby can go home from the hospital afterward. The child will most
often need to take medicines every day and be closely followed by a pediatric
heart doctor (cardiologist). The childâs doctor will determine when the
second stage of surgery should be done.

The next surgery (or first surgery, if the baby didnât need a procedure as a
newborn) is called the bidirectional Glenn shunt or Hemifontan procedure. This
surgery is usually done when the child is 4 to 6 months old.

Even after the above operations, the child may still look blue (cyanotic). The
final step is called the Fontan procedure. This surgery is most often done
when the child is 18 months to 3 years old. After this final step, the baby is
no longer blue.

The Fontan operation does not create normal circulation in the body. But, it
does improve blood flow enough for the child to live and grow.

A child may need more surgeries for other defects or to extend survival while
waiting for the Fontan procedure.

Your child may need to take medicines before and after surgery. These may
include:

      * Anticoagulants to prevent blood clotting
      * ACE inhibitors to reduce blood pressure
      * Digoxin to help the heart contract
      * Water pills (diuretics) to reduce swelling in the body

A heart transplant may be recommended, if the above methods fail.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

DILV is a very complex heart defect that isnât easy to treat. How well the
baby does depends on:

      * The babyâs overall condition at the time of diagnosis and treatment.
      * If there are other heart problems.
      * How severe the defect is.

After treatment, many infants with DILV live to be adults. But, they will
require lifelong follow-ups. They may also face complications and may have to
limit their physical activities.

## Possible Complications

Complications of DILV include:

      * Clubbing (thickening of the nail beds) on the toes and fingers (late sign)
      * Heart failure
      * Frequent pneumonia
      * Heart rhythm problems
      * Death

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if your child:

      * Seems to tire easily
      * Has trouble breathing
      * Has bluish skin or lips

Also talk to your provider if your baby is not growing or gaining weight.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention.

## Alternative Names

DILV; Single ventricle; Common ventricle; Univentricular heart; Univentricular
heart of the left ventricular type; Congenital heart defect - DILV; Cyanotic
heart defect - DILV; Birth defect - DILV

## Images

      * ![Double inlet left ventricle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22700t.jpg)Double inlet left ventricle

## References

Jacobs ML. The functionally univentricular heart and Fontan's operation. In:
Mavroudis C, Backer C, eds. _Pediatric Cardiac Surgery_. 4th ed. Oxford, UK:
Wiley-Blackwell; 2013;chap 28.

Kanter KR. Management of single ventricle and cavopulmonary connections. In:
Sellke FW, del Nido PJ, Swanson SJ, eds. _Sabiston and Spencer Surgery of the
Chest_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 129.

Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF. Cyanotic congenital heart
disease: lesions associated with increased pulmonary blood flow. In: Kliegman
RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 431.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Congenital Heart
Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CongenitalHeartDefects_thumb.jpg)Congenital
Heart Defects _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

