Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007323.htm    
                                Description: Anomalous left coronary artery from the pulmonary artery (ALCAPA) is a heart defect. The left coronary artery (LCA), which carries blood to the heart muscle, begins from the pulmonary artery instead of    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Anomalous left coronary artery from the pulmonary artery

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007323.htm

# Anomalous left coronary artery from the pulmonary artery

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Anomalous left coronary artery from the pulmonary artery (ALCAPA) is a heart
defect. The left coronary artery (LCA), which carries blood to the heart
muscle, begins from the pulmonary artery instead of the aorta.

ALCAPA is present at birth (congenital).

## Causes

ALCAPA is a problem that occurs when the babyâs heart is developing early in
the pregnancy. The developing blood vessel to the heart muscle does not attach
correctly.

In the normal heart, the LCA originates from the aorta. It supplies oxygen-
rich blood to the heart muscle on the left side of the heart as well as the
mitral valve (the heart valve between the upper and lower chambers of the
heart on the left side). The aorta is the major blood vessel that takes
oxygen-rich blood from the heart to the rest of the body.

In children with ALCAPA, the LCA originates from the pulmonary artery. The
pulmonary artery is the major blood vessel that takes oxygen-poor blood from
the heart to the lungs to pick up oxygen.

![Anomalous left coronary
artery](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/22708.jpg)

When this defect occurs, blood that is lacking in oxygen is carried to the
heart muscle on the left side of the heart. Therefore, the heart muscle does
not get enough oxygen. The tissue begins to die due to lack of oxygen. This
can cause a heart attack in the baby.

A condition known as "coronary steal" further damages the heart in babies with
ALCAPA. The low blood pressure in the pulmonary artery causes blood from the
abnormally connected LCA to flow back toward the pulmonary artery instead of
toward the heart muscle. This results in less blood and oxygen to the heart
muscle. This problem can also lead to a heart attack in a baby. Coronary steal
develops over time in babies with ALCAPA if the condition is not treated
early.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of ALCAPA in an infant include:

      * Crying or sweating during feeding
      * Irritability
      * Pale skin
      * Poor feeding
      * Rapid breathing
      * Symptoms of pain or distress in the baby (often mistaken for colic)

Symptoms can appear within the firstÂ 2 months of the babyâs life.

## Exams and Tests

Typically, ALCAPA is diagnosed during infancy. In rare cases, this defect is
not diagnosed until someone is a child or adult.

During an exam, the health care provider will likely find signs of ALCAPA,
including:

      * Abnormal heart rhythm
      * Enlarged heart
      * Heart murmur (rare)
      * Rapid pulse

Tests that may be ordered include:

      * Echocardiogram, which is an ultrasound that views the heart structures and blood flow inside the heart
      * Electrocardiogram (ECG), which measures the electrical activity of the heart
      * Chest x-ray
      * MRI, which provides a detailed image of the heart
      * Cardiac catheterization, a procedure in which a thin tube (catheter) is placed into the heart to see blood flow and take accurate measurements of blood pressure and oxygen levels

## Treatment

Surgery is needed to correct ALCAPA. OnlyÂ one surgery is needed in most
cases. However, the surgery will depend on the babyâs condition and the size
of the involved blood vessels.

If the heart muscle supporting the mitral valve is seriously damaged from
decreased oxygen, the baby may also need surgery to repair or replace the
valve. The mitral valve controls blood flow between the chambers on the left
side of the heart.

A heart transplant can be done in case the babyâs heart is severely damaged
due to lack of oxygen.

Medicines used include:

      * Water pills (diuretics )
      * Drugs that make the heart muscle pump harder (inotropic agents)
      * Drugs that lower the workload on the heart (beta-blockers, ACE inhibitors)

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Without treatment, most babies do not survive their first year. Children who
do survive without treatment may have serious heart problems. Babies with this
problem who arenât treatedÂ could die suddenly during the following years.

With early treatment such as surgery, most babies do well and can expect a
normal life. Routine follow-ups with a heart specialist (cardiologist) will be
needed.

## Possible Complications

Complications of ALCAPA include:

      * Heart attack
      * Heart failure
      * Heart rhythm problems
      * Permanent damage to the heart

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your baby:

      * Is breathing rapidly
      * Looks very pale
      * Seems distressed and cries often

## Alternative Names

Anomalous origin of the left coronary artery arising from the pulmonary
artery; ALCAPA; ALCAPA syndrome; Bland-White-Garland syndrome; Congenital
heart defect - ALCAPA; Birth defect - ALCAPA

## Images

      * ![Anomalous left coronary artery](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22708t.jpg)Anomalous left coronary artery

## References

Brothers JA, Frommelt MA, Jaquiss RDB, Myerburg RJ, Fraser CD Jr, Tweddell JS.
Expert consensus guidelines: anomalous aortic origin of a coronary artery. _J
Thorac Cardiovasc Surg_. 2017;153(6):1440-1457. PMID: 28274557
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28274557.

Brothers JA, Gaynor JW. Surgery for congenital anomalies of the coronary
arteries. In: Sellke FW, del Nido PJ, Swanson SJ, eds. _Sabiston and Spencer
Surgery of the Chest_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 124.

Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF. Other congenital heart and
vascular malformations. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF,
eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 432.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Congenital Heart
Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CongenitalHeartDefects_thumb.jpg)Congenital
Heart Defects _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

