Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007325.htm    
                                Description: A bicuspid aortic valve (BAV) is an aortic valve that only has two leaflets, instead of three.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bicuspid aortic valve

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007325.htm

# Bicuspid aortic valve

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A bicuspid aortic valve (BAV) is an aortic valve that only has two leaflets,
instead of three.

The aortic valve regulates blood flow from the heart into the aorta. The aorta
is the major blood vessel that brings oxygen-rich blood to the body.

![Bicuspid aortic
valve](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/22712.jpg)

## Causes

The aortic valve allows oxygen-rich blood to flow from the heart to the aorta.
It prevents the blood from flowing back from the aorta into the heart when the
pumping chamber relaxes.

BAV is present at birth (congenital). An abnormal aortic valve develops during
the early weeks of pregnancy, when the baby's heart is developing. The cause
of this problem is unclear, but it is the most common congenital heart defect.
BAV often runs in families.

A BAV may not be completely effective at stopping blood from leaking back into
the heart. This leakage is called aortic regurgitation. The aortic valve may
also become stiff and not open up. This is called aortic stenosis, which
causes the heart to pump harder than usual to get blood through the valve. The
aorta may become enlarged with this condition.

BAV is more common among males than females.

A BAV often exists in babies with coarctation of the aorta (narrowing of the
aorta). BAV is also seen in diseases in which there is a blockage to blood
flow on the left side of the heart.

## Symptoms

Most of the time, BAV is not diagnosed in infants or children because it
causes no symptoms. However, the abnormal valve can leak or become narrow over
time.

Symptoms of such complications may include:

      * Baby or child tires easily
      * Chest pain
      * Difficulty breathing
      * Rapid and irregular heartbeat (palpitations)
      * Loss of consciousness (fainting)
      * Pale skin

If a baby has other congenital heart problems, they may cause symptoms that
will lead to the discovery of a BAV.

## Exams and Tests

During an exam, the health care provider will likely find signs of a BAV
including:

      * Enlarged heart
      * Heart murmur
      * Weak pulse in the wrists and ankles

Tests that may be ordered include:

      * MRI, which provides a detailed image of the heart
      * Echocardiogram, which is an ultrasound that views the heart structures and blood flow inside the heart

If the provider suspects complications or additional heart defects, other
tests may include:

      * Chest x-ray
      * Electrocardiogram (ECG), which measures the electrical activity of the heart
      * Cardiac catheterization, a procedure in which a thin tube (catheter) is placed into the heart to see blood flow and take accurate measurements of blood pressure and oxygen levels
      * MRA, an MRI that uses a dye to view the blood vessels of the heart

## Treatment

The infant or child may need surgery to repair or replace a leaky or narrowed
valve, if complications are severe.

A narrowed valve can also be opened through cardiac catheterization. A fine
tube (catheter) is directed to the heart and into the narrow opening of the
aortic valve. A balloon attached to the end of the tube is inflated to make
the opening of the valve larger.

In adults, when a bicuspid valve becomes very leaky or very narrowed, it may
need to be replaced.

Sometimes the aorta may also need to be repaired if it has become too wide or
is too narrow.

Medicine may be needed to relieve symptoms or prevent complications. Medicines
may include:

      * Drugs that lower the workload on the heart (beta-blockers, ACE inhibitors)
      * Drugs that make the heart muscle pump harder (inotropic agents)
      * Water pills (diuretics) 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well the baby does depends on the presence and severity of complications
of BAV.

The presence of other physical problems at birth also can affect how well a
baby does.

Most babies with this condition have no symptoms, and the problem is not
diagnosed until they are adults. Some people never find out that they have
this problem.

## Possible Complications

Complications of BAV include:

      * Heart failure
      * Leakage of blood through the valve back into the heart
      * Narrowing of the valveâs opening
      * Infection of the heart muscle or aortic valve

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your childâs provider if your baby:

      * Has no appetite
      * Has unusually pale or bluish skin
      * Seems to tire easily

## Prevention

BAV runs in families. If you know of this condition in your family, speak to
your provider before becoming pregnant. There is no known way to prevent the
condition.

## Alternative Names

Bicommissural aortic valve; Valvular disease - bicuspid aortic valve; BAV

## Patient Instructions

      * Heart valve surgery - discharge 

## Images

      * ![Bicuspid aortic valve](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22712t.jpg)Bicuspid aortic valve

## References

Borger MA, Fedak PWM, Stephens EH, et al. AATS consensus guidelines on
bicuspid aortic valve-related aortopathy: full online only version. _J Thorac
Cardiovasc Surg_. 2018. doi: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2018.02.115.

Braverman AC. The bicuspid aortic valve and associated aortic disease. In:
Otto CM, Bonow RO, eds. _Valvular Heart Disease: A Companion to Braunwald's
Heart Disease_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 13.

Carabello BA. Valvular heart disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 75.

Lindman BR, Bonow RO, Otto CM. Aortic valve disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 68.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Congenital Heart
Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CongenitalHeartDefects_thumb.jpg)Congenital
Heart Defects _Read more_

![Heart Valve
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartValveDiseases_thumb.jpg)Heart
Valve Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

