Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001115.htm    
                                Description: Total anomalous pulmonary venous return (TAPVR) is a heart disease in which the 4 veins that take blood from the lungs to the heart do not attach normally to the left atrium (left upper chamber of the    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Total anomalous pulmonary venous return

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001115.htm

# Total anomalous pulmonary venous return

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Total anomalous pulmonary venous return (TAPVR) is a heart disease in which
the 4 veins that take blood from the lungs to the heart do not attach normally
to the left atrium (left upper chamber of the heart). Instead, they attach to
another blood vessel or the wrong part of the heart. It is present at birth
(congenital heart disease).

## Causes

The cause of total anomalous pulmonary venous return is unknown.

In normal circulation, blood is sent from the right ventricle to pick up
oxygen in the lungs. It then returns through the pulmonary (lung) veins to the
left side of the heart, which sends blood out through the aorta and around the
body.

In TAPVR, oxygen-rich blood returns from the lungs to the right atrium or to a
vein flowing into the right atrium, instead of the left side of heart. In
other words, blood simply circles to and from the lungs and never gets out to
the body.

For the infant to live, an atrial septal defect (ASD) or patent foramen ovale
(passage between the left and right atria) must exist to allow oxygenated
blood to flow to the left side of the heart and the rest of the body.

How severe this condition is depends on whether the pulmonary veins are
blocked or obstructed as they drain. Obstructed TAPVR causes symptoms early in
life and can be deadly very quickly if it is not found and corrected with
surgery.

## Symptoms

The infant may appear very sick and may have the following symptoms:

      * Bluish color of the skin (cyanosis)
      * Frequent respiratory infections
      * Lethargy
      * Poor feeding
      * Poor growth
      * Rapid breathing 

Note: Sometimes, no symptoms may be present in infancy or early childhood.

## Exams and Tests

Tests may include:

      * Cardiac catheterization can confirm the diagnosis by showing that the blood vessels are abnormally attached
      * ECG shows enlargement of the ventricles (ventricular hypertrophy)
      * Echocardiogram may show that the pulmonary vessels are attached
      * MRI or CT scan of the heart can show the connections between the pulmonary vessels
      * X-ray of the chest shows a normal to small heart with fluid in the lungs 

## Treatment

Surgery to repair the problem is needed as soon as possible. In surgery, the
pulmonary veins are connected to the left atrium and the defect between the
right and left atrium is closed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If this condition is not treated, the heart will get larger, leading to heart
failure. Repairing the defect early provides excellent results if there is no
blockage of the pulmonary veins at the new connection into the heart. Infants
who have obstructed veins have worsened survival.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Breathing difficulties
      * Heart failure
      * Irregular, fast heart rhythms (arrhythmias)
      * Lung infections
      * Pulmonary hypertension 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

This condition may be apparent at the time of birth. However, symptoms may not
be present until later.

Call your health care provider if you notice symptoms of TAPVR. Prompt
attention is required.

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent TAPVR.

## Alternative Names

TAPVR; Total veins; Congenital heart defect - TAPVR; Cyanotic heart disease -
TAPVR

## Images

      * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
      * ![Totally anomalous pulmonary venous return - X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2326t.jpg)Totally anomalous pulmonary venous return - X-ray
      * ![Totally anomalous pulmonary venous return - X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2327t.jpg)Totally anomalous pulmonary venous return - x-ray
      * ![Totally anomalous pulmonary venous return - X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2328t.jpg)Totally anomalous pulmonary venous return - X-ray

## References

Fraser CD, Kane LC. Congenital heart disease. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological
Basis of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 58.

Webb GD, Smallhorn JF, Therrien J, Redington AN. Congenital heart disease. In:
Mann DL, Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 62.

## Review Date 10/17/2017

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Congenital Heart
Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CongenitalHeartDefects_thumb.jpg)Congenital
Heart Defects _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

