Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001114.htm    
                                Description: Congenital heart disease (CHD) is a problem with the heart    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Congenital heart disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001114.htm

# Congenital heart disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Congenital heart disease (CHD) is a problem with the heart's structure and
function that is present at birth.

## Causes

CHD can describe a number of different problems affecting the heart. It is the
most common type of birth defect. CHDÂ causes more deaths in the first year of
life than any other birth defects.

CHD is often divided into two types: cyanotic (blue skin color caused by a
lack of oxygen) and non-cyanotic. The following lists cover the most common
CHDs:

Cyanotic:

      * Ebstein's anomaly
      * Hypoplastic left heart
      * Pulmonary atresia
      * Tetralogy of Fallot
      * Total anomalous pulmonary venous return
      * Transposition of the great vessels
      * Tricuspid atresia
      * Truncus arteriosus

Non-cyanotic:

      * Aortic stenosis
      * Bicuspid aortic valve  

      * Atrial septal defect (ASD)
      * Atrioventricular canal (endocardial cushion defect)
      * Coarctation of the aorta
      * Patent ductus arteriosus (PDA)
      * Pulmonic stenosis
      * Ventricular septal defect (VSD)

These problems may occur alone or together. Most children with CHD do not have
other types of birth defects. However, heart defects may be part of genetic
and chromosomal syndromes. Some of these syndromes may be passed down through
families.

Examples include:

      * DiGeorge syndrome
      * Down syndrome
      * Marfan syndrome
      * Noonan syndrome
      * Edwards syndrome  

      * Trisomy 13
      * Turner syndrome

Often, no cause for the heart disease can be found. CHDs continue to be
investigated and researched. Drugs such as retinoic acid for acne, chemicals,
alcohol, and infections (such as rubella) during pregnancy can contribute to
some congenital heart problems.

Poorly controlled blood sugar in women who have diabetes during pregnancy has
also been linked to a high rate of congenital heart defects.

## Symptoms

Symptoms depend on theÂ condition. Although CHD is present at birth, the
symptoms may not appear right away.

Defects such as coarctation of the aorta may not cause problems for years.
Other problems, such as a smallÂ VSD, ASD, or PDA may never cause any
problems.

## Exams and Tests

Most congenital heart defects are found during a pregnancy ultrasound. When a
defect is found, a pediatric heart doctor, surgeon, and other specialists can
be there when the baby is delivered. Having medical care ready at the delivery
can mean the difference between life and death for some babies.

Which tests are done on the baby depend on the defect and the symptoms.

## Treatment

Which treatment is used, and how well the baby responds to it,Â depends on the
condition. Many defects need to be followed carefully. Some will heal over
time, while others will need to be treated.

Some CHDs can be treated with medicine alone. Others need to be treated with
one or more heart procedures or surgeries.

## Prevention

Women who are pregnant should get good prenatal care:

      * Avoid alcohol and illegal drugs during pregnancy.
      * Tell your health care provider that you are pregnant before taking any new medicines.
      * Have a blood test early in your pregnancy to see if you are immune to rubella. If you are not immune, avoid any possible exposure to rubella and get vaccinated right after delivery.
      * Pregnant women who have diabetes should try to get good control over their blood sugar level.

Certain genes may play a role in CHD. Many family members may be affected.
Talk to your provider about genetic counseling and screening if you have a
family history of CHD.

## Images

      * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
      * ![Heart - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view
      * ![Ultrasound, normal fetus - heartbeat](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2259t.jpg)Ultrasound, normal fetus - heartbeat
      * ![Ultrasound, ventricular septal defect - heartbeat](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2260t.jpg)Ultrasound, ventricular septal defect - heartbeat
      * ![Patent ductus arteriosis \(PDA\) - series - Infant heart anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7065t.jpg)Patent ductus arteriosis (PDA) - series

## References

Fraser CD, Kane LC. Congenital heart disease. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds.Â _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological
Basis of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 58.

Webb GD, Smallhorn JF, Therrien J, Redington AN. Congenital heart disease. In:
Mann DL, Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 62.

## Review Date 12/8/2017

Updated by: Steven Kang, MD, Director, Cardiac Electrophysiology, Alta Bates
Summit Medical Center, Stanford Healthcare, Oakland, CA. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Congenital Heart
Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CongenitalHeartDefects_thumb.jpg)Congenital
Heart Defects _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

