Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001091.htm    
                                Description: Pulmonary atresia is a form of heart disease in which the pulmonary valve does not form properly. It is present from birth (congenital heart disease). The pulmonary valve is an opening on the right side    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pulmonary atresia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001091.htm

# Pulmonary atresia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pulmonary atresia is a form of heart disease in which the pulmonary valve does
not form properly. It is present from birth (congenital heart disease). The
pulmonary valve is an opening on the right side of the heart that regulates
blood flow from the right ventricle (right side pumping chamber) to the lungs.

In pulmonary atresia, the fused valve leaflets form a solid sheet of tissue
where the valve opening should be. This blocks normal blood flow to the lung.
Because of this defect, blood from the right side of the heart cannot go to
the lungs to pick up oxygen.

## Causes

As with most congenital heart diseases, there is no known cause of pulmonary
atresia. The condition is linked with another type of congenital heart defect
called a patent ductus arteriosus (PDA).

Pulmonary atresia may occur with or without a ventricular septal defect (VSD).

      * If the person does not have a VSD, the condition is called pulmonary atresia with intact ventricular septum (PA/IVS).
      * If the person has both problems, the condition is called pulmonary atresia with VSD. This is an extreme form of tetralogy of Fallot.

Although both conditions are called pulmonary atresia, they are actually
different defects. This article discusses pulmonary atresia without a VSD.

People with PA/IVS may also have a poorly developed tricuspid valve. They may
also have an underdeveloped or very thick right ventricle, and abnormal blood
vessels feeding the heart.Â Less commonly, structures in the left ventricle,
aortic valve, and right atrium are involved.

## Symptoms

Symptoms most often occur in the first few hours of life, although it may take
up to a few days.

Symptoms may include:

      * Bluish colored skin (cyanosis)
      * Fast breathing
      * Fatigue
      * Poor eating habits (babies may get tired while nursing or sweat during feedings)
      * Shortness of breath

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will use a stethoscope to listen to the heart and
lungs. People with a PDA have a heart murmur that can be heard with a
stethoscope.

The following tests may be ordered:

      * Chest x-ray
      * Echocardiogram
      * Electrocardiogram (ECG)
      * Heart catheterization
      * Pulse oximetry -- shows the amount of oxygen in the blood

## Treatment

A medicine called prostaglandin E1 is usually used to help the blood move
(circulate) into the lungs. This medicine keeps a blood vessel open between
the pulmonary artery and aorta. The vessel is called a PDA.

Multiple treatments are possible, but depend on the extent of the heart
abnormalities that accompany the pulmonary valve defect. Potential invasive
treatments include:

      * Biventricular repair -- This surgery separates the blood flow to the lungs from the circulation to the rest of the body by creating two pumping ventricles.
      * Univentricular palliation -- This surgery separates the blood flow to the lungs from the circulation to the rest of the body by constructing one pumping ventricle.
      * Heart transplant.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most cases can be helped with surgery. How well a baby does depends on:

      * Size and connections of the pulmonary artery (the artery that takes blood to the lungs)
      * How well the heart is beating
      * How well the other heart valves are formed or how much they are leaking

Outcome varies because of the different forms of this defect. A baby may need
only a single procedure or could need three or more surgeries and have only a
single working ventricle.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Delayed growth and development
      * Seizures
      * Stroke
      * Infectious endocarditis
      * Heart failure
      * Death 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if the baby has:

      * Problems breathing
      * Skin, nails or lips that appear blue (cyanosis)

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent this condition.

All pregnant women should get routine prenatal care. Many congenital defects
can be found on routine ultrasound exams.

If the defect is found before birth, medical specialists (such as a pediatric
cardiologist, cardiothoracic surgeon, and neonatologist) can be present at the
birth, and ready to help as needed. This preparation can mean the difference
between life and death for some babies.

## Alternative Names

Pulmonary atresia - intact ventricular septum; PA/IVS; Congenital heart
disease - pulmonary atresia; Cyanotic heart disease - pulmonary atresia; Valve
- disorder pulmonary atresia

## Images

      * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
      * ![Heart - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view

## References

Fraser CD, Kane LC. Congenital heart disease. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds.Â _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2017:chap 58.

Webb GD, Smallhorn JF, Therrien J, Redington AN. Congenital heart disease. In:
Mann DL, Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 62.

## Review Date 12/8/2017

Updated by: Steven Kang, MD, Director, Cardiac Electrophysiology, Alta Bates
Summit Medical Center, Stanford Healthcare, Oakland, CA. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Congenital Heart
Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CongenitalHeartDefects_thumb.jpg)Congenital
Heart Defects _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

