Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007317.htm    
                                Description: Eisenmenger syndrome is a condition that affects blood flow from the heart to the lungs in some people who were born with structural problems of the heart.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Eisenmenger syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007317.htm

# Eisenmenger syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Eisenmenger syndrome is a condition that affects blood flow from the heart to
the lungs in some people who were born with structural problems of the heart.

## Causes

Eisenmenger syndrome is a condition that results from abnormal blood
circulation caused by a defect in the heart. Most often, people with this
condition are born with a hole between the two pumping chambers -- the left
and right ventricles -- of the heart (ventricular septal defect). The hole
allows blood that has already picked up oxygen from the lungs to flow back
into the lungs, instead of going out to the rest of the body.

![Eisenmenger syndrome \(or
complex\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/22710.jpg)

Other heart defects that can lead to Eisenmenger syndrome include:

      * Atrioventricular canal defect
      * Atrial septal defect
      * Cyanotic heart disease
      * Patent ductus arteriosus
      * Truncus arteriosus 

Over many years, increased blood flow can damage the small blood vessels in
the lungs. This causes high blood pressure in the lungs. As a result, the
blood flow goes backward through the hole between the two pumping chambers.
This allows oxygen-poor blood to travel to the rest of the body.

Eisenmenger syndrome may begin to develop before a child reaches puberty.
However, it also can develop in young adulthood, and may progress throughout
young adulthood.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Bluish lips, fingers, toes, and skin (cyanosis)
      * Rounded fingernails and toenails (clubbing)
      * Numbness and tingling of fingers and toes
      * Chest pain
      * Coughing up blood
      * Dizziness
      * Fainting
      * Feeling tired
      * Shortness of breath
      * Skipped heartbeats (palpitations)
      * Stroke
      * Swelling in the joints caused by too much uric acid (gout)

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine the child. During the exam, the provider
may find:

      * Abnormal heart rhythm (arrhythmia)
      * Enlarged ends of the fingers or toes (clubbing)
      * Heart murmur (an extra sound when listening to the heart) 

The provider will diagnose Eisenmenger syndrome by looking at the person's
history of heart problems. Tests may include:

      * Complete blood count (CBC)
      * Chest x-ray
      * MRI scan of the heart
      * Putting a thin tube in an artery to view the heart and blood vessels and measure pressures (cardiac catheterization)
      * Test of the electrical activity in the heart (electrocardiogram)
      * Ultrasound of the heart (echocardiogram) 

The number of cases of this condition in the United States has dropped because
doctors are now able to diagnose and correct the defect sooner. Therefore, the
problem can be corrected before irreversible damage occurs to the small lung
arteries.

## Treatment

At times, people with symptoms may have blood removed from the body
(phlebotomy) to reduce the number of red blood cells. The person then receives
fluids to replace the lost blood (volume replacement).

Affected people may receive oxygen, although it is unclear if it helps to
prevent the disease from getting worse. In addition, medications that work to
relax and open the blood vessels may be given. People with very severe
symptoms may eventually need a heart-lung transplant.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well the affected person does depends on whether another medical condition
is present, and the age at which high blood pressure develops in the lungs.
People with this condition can live 20 to 50 years.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Bleeding (hemorrhage) in the brain
      * Congestive heart failure
      * Gout
      * Heart attack
      * Hyperviscosity (sludging of the blood because it is too thick with blood cells)
      * Infection (abscess) in the brain
      * Kidney failure
      * Poor blood flow to the brain
      * Stroke
      * Sudden death 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child develops symptoms of Eisenmenger syndrome.

## Prevention

Surgery as early as possible to correct the heart defect can prevent
Eisenmenger syndrome.

## Alternative Names

Eisenmenger complex; Eisenmenger disease; Eisenmenger reaction; Eisenmenger
physiology; Congenital heart defect - Eisenmenger; Cyanotic heart disease -
Eisenmenger; Birth defect heart - Eisenmenger

## Images

      * ![Eisenmenger syndrome \(or complex\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22710t.jpg)Eisenmenger syndrome (or complex)

## References

Bernstein D. General principles of treatment of congenital heart disease. In:
Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 434.

Marelli AJ. Congenital heart disease in adults. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 69.

Webb GD, Smallhorn JF, Therrien J, Redington AN. Congenital heart disease in
the adult and pediatric patient. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL,
Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of
Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 75.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Congenital Heart
Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CongenitalHeartDefects_thumb.jpg)Congenital
Heart Defects _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

