Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000157.htm    
                                Description: Atrial septal defect (ASD) is a heart defect that is present at birth (congenital).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Atrial septal defect (ASD)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000157.htm

# Atrial septal defect (ASD)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Atrial septal defect (ASD) is a heart defect that is present at birth
(congenital).

As a baby develops in the womb, a wall (septum) forms that divides the upper
chamber into a left and right atrium. When this wall does not form correctly,
it can result in a defect that remains after birth. This is called an atrial
septal defect, or ASD.

## Causes

Normally, blood cannot flow between the two upper heart chambers. However, an
ASD allows this to happen.

When blood flows between the two heart chambers. This is called a shunt. Blood
most often flows from the left to the right side. When this happens the right
side of the heart enlarges. Over time pressure in the lungs may build up. When
this happens, the blood flowing through the defect will then go from right to
left. If this occurs, there will be less oxygen in the blood that goes to the
body.

![Atrial septal defect](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18119.jpg)

Atrial septal defects are defined as primum or secundum.

      * The primum defects are linked to other heart defects of the ventricular septum and mitral valve.
      * Secundum defects can be a single, small or large hole. They may also be more than one small hole in the septum or wall between the two chambers. 

Very small defects of (less than 5 millimeters or Â¼ inch) are less likely to
cause problems. Smaller defects are often discovered much later in life than
larger ones.

Along with the size of the ASD, where the defect is located plays a role on
blood flow and oxygen levels. The presence of other heart defects is also
important.

ASD is not very common.

## Symptoms

A person with no other heart defect, or a small defect (less than 5
millimeters) may not have any symptoms, or symptoms may not occur until middle
age or later.

Symptoms that do occur may begin at any time after birth through childhood.
They can include:

      * Difficulty breathing (dyspnea)
      * Frequent respiratory infections in children
      * Feeling the heart beat (palpitations) in adults
      * Shortness of breath with activity 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will check how large and severe an ASD is based on
the symptoms, physical exam, and the results of heart tests.

The provider may hear abnormal heart sounds when listening to the chest with a
stethoscope. A murmur may be heard only in certain body positions. Sometimes,
a murmur may not be heard at all. A murmur means that blood is not flowing
through the heart smoothly.

The physical exam may also show signs of heart failure in some adults.

An echocardiogram is a test that uses sound waves to create a moving picture
of the heart. It is often the first test done. A Doppler study done at the
same time as an echocardiogram allows the health care provider to assess the
amount of shunting of blood between the heart chambers.

Other tests that may be done include:

      * Cardiac catheterization
      * Coronary angiography (for patients over 35 years old)
      * ECG
      * Heart MRI
      * Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) 

## Treatment

ASD may not need treatment if there are few or no symptoms, or if the defect
is small and is not associated with other abnormalities. Surgery to close the
defect is recommended if the defect causes a large amount of shunting, the
heart is swollen, or symptoms occur.

A procedure has been developed to close the defect without surgery.

      * The procedure involves placing an ASD closure device into the heart through tubes called catheters.
      * The health care provider makes a tiny cut in the groin, then inserts the catheters into a blood vessel and up into the heart.
      * The closure device is then placed across the ASD and the defect is closed. 

Sometimes, open-heart surgery may be needed to repair the defect. The type of
surgery is more likely needed when other heart defects are present.

Some people with atrial septal defects may be able to have this procedure,
depending on the size and location of the defect.

People who have surgery for ASD should get antibiotics before any dental
procedures they have in the period following the procedure. Antibiotics are
not needed later on.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In infants, small ASDs (less than 5 mm) will often not cause problems, or will
close without treatment. Larger ASDs (8 to 10 mm), often do not close and may
need a procedure.

Important factors include the size of the defect, the amount of extra blood
flowing through the opening, the size of the right side of the heart, and
whether the person has any symptoms.

Some people with ASD may have other congenital heart conditions. These may
include a leaky valve or a hole in another area of the heart.

## Possible Complications

People with a larger or more complicated ASD are at an increased risk for
developing other problems, including:

      * Abnormal heart rhythms, particularly atrial fibrillation
      * Heart failure
      * Heart infection (endocarditis)
      * High blood pressure in the arteries of the lungs
      * Stroke 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have symptomsÂ of an atrial septal
defect.

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent the defect. Some of the complications can be
prevented with early detection.

## Alternative Names

Congenital heart defect - ASD; Birth defect heart - ASD; Primum ASD; Secundum
ASD

## Patient Instructions

      * Pediatric heart surgery - discharge

## Images

      * ![Atrial septal defect](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18119t.jpg)Atrial septal defect

## References

Liegeois JR, Rigby ML. Atrial septal defect (interatrial communication). In:
Gatzoulis MA, Webb GD, Daubeney PEF, eds. _Diagnosis and Management of Adult
Congenital Heart Disease_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 29.

Marelli AJ. Congenital heart disease in adults. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 69.

Silvestry FE, Cohen MS, Armsby LB, et al. Guidelines for the echocardiographic
assessment of atrial septal defect and patent foramen ovale: from the American
Society of Echocardiography and Society for Cardiac Angiography and
Interventions. _J Am Soc Echocardiogr_. 2015;28(8):910-958. PMID: 26239900
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26239900.

Webb GD, Smallhorn JF, Therrien J, Redington AN. Congenital heart disease in
the adult and pediatric patient. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL,
Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of
Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 75.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Congenital Heart
Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CongenitalHeartDefects_thumb.jpg)Congenital
Heart Defects _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

