Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001096.htm    
                                Description: Pulmonary valve stenosis is a heart valve disorder that involves the pulmonary valve.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pulmonary valve stenosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001096.htm

# Pulmonary valve stenosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pulmonary valve stenosis is a heart valve disorder that involves the pulmonary
valve.

This is the valve separating the right ventricle (one of the chambers in the
heart) and the pulmonary artery. The pulmonary artery carries oxygen-poor
blood to the lungs.

Stenosis, or narrowing, occurs when the valve cannot open wide enough. As a
result, less blood flows to the lungs.

## Causes

Narrowing of the pulmonary valve is most often present at birth (congenital).
It is caused by a problem that occurs as the baby develops in the womb before
birth. The cause is unknown, but genes may play a role.

Narrowing that occurs in the valve itself is called pulmonary valve stenosis.
There may also be narrowing just before or after the valve.

The defect may occur alone or with other heart defects that are present at
birth. The condition can be mild or severe.

Pulmonary valve stenosis is a rare disorder. In some cases, the problem runs
in families.

## Symptoms

Many cases of pulmonary valve stenosis are mild and do not cause symptoms. The
problem is most often found in infants when a heart murmur is heard during a
routine heart exam.

When the valve narrowing (stenosis) is moderate to severe, the symptoms
include:

      * Abdominal distention
      * Bluish color to the skin (cyanosis) in some people
      * Poor appetite
      * Chest pain
      * Fainting
      * Fatigue
      * Poor weight gain or failure to thrive in infants with a severe blockage
      * Shortness of breath
      * Sudden death 

Symptoms may get worse with exercise or activity.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider may hear a heart murmur when listening to the heart
using a stethoscope. Murmurs are blowing, whooshing, or rasping sounds heard
during a heartbeat.

Tests used to diagnose pulmonary stenosis may include:

      * Cardiac catheterization
      * Chest x-ray
      * ECG
      * Echocardiogram
      * MRI of the heart

The provider will grade the severity of the valve stenosis to plan treatment.

## Treatment

Sometimes, treatment may not be needed if the disorder is mild.

When there are also other heart defects, medicines may be used to:

      * Help blood flow through the heart (prostaglandins)
      * Help the heart beat stronger
      * Prevent clots (blood thinners)
      * Remove excess fluid (water pills)
      * Treat abnormal heartbeats and rhythms 

Percutaneous balloon pulmonary dilation (valvuloplasty) may be performed when
no other heart defects are present.

      * This procedure is done through an artery in the groin.
      * The doctor sends a flexible tube (catheter) with a balloon attached to the end up to the heart. Special x-rays are used to help guide the catheter.
      * The balloon stretches the opening of the valve. 

Some people may need heart surgery to repair or replace the pulmonary valve.
The new valve can be made from different materials. If the valve cannot be
repaired or replaced, other procedures may be needed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People with mild disease rarely get worse. However, those with moderate to
severe disease will get worse. The outcome is often very good when surgery or
balloon dilation is successful. Other congenital heart defects may be a factor
in the outlook.

Most often, the new valves can last for decades. However, some will wear out
and need to be replaced.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Abnormal heartbeats (arrhythmias)
      * Death
      * Heart failure and enlargement of the right side of the heart 
      * Leaking of blood back into the right ventricle (pulmonary regurgitation) after repair

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You have symptoms of pulmonary valve stenosis.
      * You have been treated or have untreated pulmonary valve stenosis and have developed swelling (of the ankles, legs, or abdomen), difficulty breathing, or other new symptoms. 

## Alternative Names

Valvular pulmonary stenosis; Heart valve pulmonary stenosis; Pulmonary
stenosis; Stenosis - pulmonary valve; Balloon valvuloplasty - pulmonary

## Patient Instructions

      * Heart valve surgery - discharge 

## Images

      * ![Heart valves](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9380t.jpg)Heart valves

## References

Carabello BA. Valvular heart disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 75.

Marelli AJ. Congenital heart disease in adults. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 69.

Pelikka PA. Tricuspid, pulmonic, and multivalvular disease. In: Zipes DP,
Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 70.

Webb GD, Smallhorn JF, Therrien J, Redington AN. Congenital heart disease in
the adult and pediatric patient. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL,
Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of
Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 75.

## Review Date 5/15/2018

Updated by: Mary C. Mancini, MD, PhD, Director, Cardiothoracic Surgery,
Christus Highland Medical Center, Shreveport, LA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Congenital Heart
Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CongenitalHeartDefects_thumb.jpg)Congenital
Heart Defects _Read more_

![Heart Valve
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartValveDiseases_thumb.jpg)Heart
Valve Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

