Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001110.htm    
                                Description: Tricuspid atresia is a type of heart disease that is present at birth (congenital heart disease), in which the tricuspid heart valve is missing or abnormally developed. The defect blocks blood flow from    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tricuspid atresia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001110.htm

# Tricuspid atresia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Tricuspid atresia is a type of heart disease that is present at birth
(congenital heart disease), in which the tricuspid heart valve is missing or
abnormally developed. The defect blocks blood flow from the right atrium to
the right ventricle. Other heart or vessel defects are usually present at the
same time.

## Causes

Tricuspid atresia is an uncommon form of congenital heart disease. It affects
about 5 in every 100,000 live births.Â One inÂ 5 people with this condition
will also have other heart problems.

Normally, blood flows from the body into the right atrium, then through the
tricuspid valve to the right ventricle and on to the lungs. If the tricuspid
valve does not open, the blood cannot flow from the right atrium to the right
ventricle. Because of the problem with the tricuspid valve, blood ultimately
cannot enter the lungs. This is where it must go to pick up oxygen (becomes
oxygenated).

Instead, the blood passes through a hole between the right and left atrium. In
the left atrium, it mixes with oxygen-rich blood returning from the lungs.
This mix of oxygen-rich and oxygen-poor blood is then pumped out into the body
from the left ventricle. This causes the oxygen level in the blood to be lower
than normal.

In people with tricuspid atresia, the lungs receive blood either through a
hole between the right and left ventricles (described above), or through
maintenance of a fetal vessel called the ductus arteriosus. The ductus
arteriosusÂ connects the pulmonary artery (artery to the lungs) to the aorta
(main artery to the body).Â It is present when a baby is born, but normally
closes by itself shortly after birth.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Bluish color to the skin (cyanosis) due to low oxygen level in the blood 
      * Fast breathing
      * Fatigue
      * Poor growth
      * Shortness of breath

## Exams and Tests

This condition may be discovered during routine prenatal ultrasound imaging or
when the baby is examined after birth. Bluish skin is presentÂ at birth. A
heart murmur is often present at birth and may increase in loudness over
several months.

Tests may include the following:

      * ECG
      * Echocardiogram
      * Chest x-ray
      * Cardiac catheterization
      * MRI of the heart
      * CT scan of the heart

## Treatment

Once the diagnosis is made, the baby will often be admitted to the neonatal
intensive care unit (NICU). A medicine called prostaglandin E1 may be used to
keep the ductus arteriosis open so that blood can circulate to the lungs.

Generally, patients with this condition require surgery. If the heart is
unable to pump enough blood out to the lungs and rest of the body, the first
surgery most often takes place within the first few days of life. In this
procedure, an artificial shunt is inserted to keep blood flowing to the lungs.
In some cases, this first surgery is not needed.

Afterward, the baby goes home in most cases. The child will need to take one
or more daily medicines and be closely followed by a pediatric cardiologist.
This doctor will decide when the second stage of surgery should be done.

The next stage of surgery is called the Glenn shunt or hemi-Fontan procedure.
This procedure connects half of the veins carryingÂ oxygen-poor blood from the
upper half of the body directly to the pulmonary artery. The surgery is most
often done when the child is between 4 to 6 months old.

During stage I and II, the child may still look blue (cyanotic).

Stage III, the final step, is called the Fontan procedure. The rest of the
veins carryingÂ oxygen-poor blood from the body are connected directly to the
pulmonary artery leading to the lungs. The left ventricle now only has to pump
to the body, not the lungs. This surgery is usually performed when the child
is 18 months to 3 years old. After this final step, the baby's skinÂ is no
longer blue.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In most cases, surgery will improve the condition.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Irregular, fast heart rhythms (arrhythmias)
      * Chronic diarrhea (from a disease called protein-losing enteropathy)
      * Heart failure
      * Fluid in the abdomen (ascites) and in the lungs (pleural effusion)
      * Blockage of the artificial shunt
      * Strokes and other nervous system complications
      * Sudden death 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your health care provider right away if your infant has:

      * New changes in breathing patterns
      * Problems eating
      * Skin that is turning blue 

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent tricuspid atresia.

## Alternative Names

Tri atresia; Valve disorder - tricuspid atresia; Congenital heart - tricuspid
atresia; Cyanotic heart disease - tricuspid atresia

## Images

      * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
      * ![Tricuspid atresia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22704t.jpg)Tricuspid atresia

## References

Fraser CD, Kane LC. Congenital heart disease. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds.Â _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2017:chap 58.

Webb GD, Smallhorn JF, Therrien J, Redington AN. Congenital heart disease. In:
Mann DL, Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 62.

## Review Date 10/17/2017

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Congenital Heart
Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CongenitalHeartDefects_thumb.jpg)Congenital
Heart Defects _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

