Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001568.htm    
                                Description: Transposition of the great arteries (TGA) is a heart defect that occurs from birth (congenital). The two major arteries that carry blood away from the heart -- the aorta and the pulmonary artery -- are    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Transposition of the great arteries

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001568.htm

# Transposition of the great arteries

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Transposition of the great arteries (TGA) is a heart defect that occurs from
birth (congenital). The two major arteries that carry blood away from the
heart -- the aorta and the pulmonary artery -- are switched (transposed).

## Causes

The cause of TGA is unknown. It is not associated with any one common genetic
abnormality. It rarely occurs in other family members.

TGA is a cyanotic heart defect. This means there is decreased oxygen in the
blood that is pumped from the heart to the rest of the body.

In normal hearts, blood that returns from the body goes through the right side
of the heart and pulmonary artery to the lungs to get oxygen. The blood then
comes back to the left side of the heart and travels out the aorta to the
body.

In TGA, venous blood returns normally to the heart through the right atrium.
But, instead of going to the lungs to absorb oxygen, this blood is pumped out
through the aorta and back to the body. This blood has not been recharged with
oxygen and leads to cyanosis.

Symptoms appear at birth or very soon afterward. How bad the symptoms are
depends on the type and size of additional heart defects (such as atrial
septal defect, ventricular septal defect, or patent ductus arteriosus) and how
much the blood can mix between the two abnormal circulations.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Blueness of the skin
      * Clubbing of the fingers or toes
      * Poor feeding
      * Shortness of breath 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider may detect a heart murmur while listening to the
chest with a stethoscope. The baby's mouth and skin will be a blue color.

Tests often include the following:

      * Cardiac catheterization
      * Chest x-ray
      * ECG
      * Echocardiogram (if done before birth, it is called a fetal echocardiogram)
      * Pulse oximetry (to check blood oxygen level) 

## Treatment

The initial step in treatment is to allow oxygen-rich blood to mix with poorly
oxygenated blood. The baby will immediately receive a medicine called
prostaglandin through an IV (intravenous line). This medicine helps keep a
blood vessel called the ductus arteriosus open, allowing some mixing of the
two blood circulations. In some cases, an opening between the right and left
atrium can be created with procedure using a balloon catheter. This allows
blood to mix. This procedure is known as balloon atrial septostomy.

Permanent treatment involves heart surgery during which the great arteries are
cut and stitched back to their correct position. This is called an arterial
switch operation (ASO). Prior to the development of this surgery, a surgery
called an atrial switch (or Mustard procedure or Senning procedure) was used.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The child's symptoms will improve after surgery to correct the defect. Most
infants who undergo arterial switch do not have symptoms after surgery and
live normal lives. If corrective surgery is not performed, the life expectancy
is only months.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Coronary artery problems
      * Heart valve problems
      * Irregular heart rhythms (arrhythmias) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

This condition can be diagnosed before birth using a fetal echocardiogram. If
not, it is most often diagnosed soon after a baby is born.

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
your baby's skin develops a bluish color, especially in the face or trunk.

Call your provider if your baby has this condition and new symptoms develop,
get worse, or continue after treatment.

## Prevention

Women who plan to become pregnant should be immunized against rubella if they
are not already immune. Eating well, avoiding alcohol, and controlling
diabetes both before and during pregnancy may be helpful.

## Alternative Names

d-TGA; Congenital heart defect - transposition; Cyanotic heart disease -
transposition; Birth defect - transposition; Transposition of the great
vessels; TGV

## Patient Instructions

      * Pediatric heart surgery - discharge

## Images

      * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
      * ![Heart - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view
      * ![Transposition of the great vessels](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8807t.jpg)Transposition of the great vessels

## References

Fraser CD, Kane LC. Congenital heart disease. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological
Basis of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 58.

Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF. Cyanotic congenital heart
lesions: lesions associated with decreased pulmonary blood flow. In: Kliegman
RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 430.

Webb GD, Smallhorn JF, Therrien J, Redington AN. Congenital heart disease. In:
Mann DL, Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 62.

## Review Date 12/15/2017

Updated by: Steven Kang, MD, Director, Cardiac Electrophysiology, Alta Bates
Summit Medical Center, Stanford Healthcare, Oakland, CA. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Congenital Heart
Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CongenitalHeartDefects_thumb.jpg)Congenital
Heart Defects _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

