Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000015.htm    
                                Description: Your child had surgery to repair a heart defect. If your child had open-heart surgery, a surgical cut was made through the breastbone or the side of the chest. The child also may have been put on a heart-lung    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pediatric heart surgery - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000015.htm

# Pediatric heart surgery - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your child had surgery to repair a heart defect. If your child had open-heart
surgery, a surgical cut was made through the breastbone or the side of the
chest. The child also may have been put on a heart-lung bypass machine during
surgery.

After the surgery, your child was probably in the intensive care unit (ICU)
and then in another part of the hospital.

## What to Expect at Home

Your child will need at least 3 or 4 more weeks at home to recover. For larger
surgeries, recovery may take 6 to 8 weeks. Talk with your child's health care
provider about when your child can return to school, daycare, or take part in
sports.

Pain after surgery is normal. There may be more pain after closed-heart
surgery than after open-heart surgery. This is because nerves may have been
irritated or cut. The pain will likely decrease after the second day and can
sometimes be managed with acetaminophen (Tylenol).

Many children behave differently after heart surgery. They may be clingy,
irritable, wet the bed, or cry. They may do these things even if they were not
doing them before their surgery. Support your child through this time. Slowly
begin to set the limits that were in place before the surgery.

## Activity

For an infant, keep the child from crying for too long for the first 3 to 4
weeks. You can calm your child by staying calm yourself. When lifting your
child, support both the child's head and bottom for the first 4 to 6 weeks.

Toddlers and older children will often stop any activity if they become tired.

The provider will tell you when it is OK for your child to return to school or
daycare.

      * Most often, the first few weeks after surgery should be a time to rest.
      * After the first follow-up visit, the provider will tell you what your child can do.

For the first 4 weeks after surgery, your child should not do any activity
that could result in a fall or a blow to the chest. Your child should also
avoid bicycle or skateboard riding, roller skating, swimming, and all contact
sports until the provider says it is OK.

Children who have had an incision through the breastbone need to be careful
about how they use their arms and upper bodies for the first 6 to 8 weeks.

      * DO NOT pull or lift the child by the arms or from their armpit area. Scoop the child up instead.
      * Prevent your child from doing any activities that involve pulling or pushing with the arms.
      * Try to keep your child from lifting the arms above the head.
      * Your child should not lift anything heavier than 5 pounds (2 kg). 

## Diet

Keep a close eye on your child's diet to make sure they get enough calories to
heal and grow.

After heart surgery, most babies and infants (younger than 12 to 15 months)
can take as much formula or breast milk as they want. In some cases, the
provider may want your baby to avoid drinking too much formula or breast milk.
Limit feeding time to around 30 minutes. Your child's provider will tell you
how to add extra calories to formula if it is necessary.

Toddlers and older children should be given a regular, healthy diet. The
provider will tell you how to improve the child's diet after surgery.

Ask your child's provider if you have any questions about your child's
nutrition.

## Wound Care

Your provider will instruct you on how to care for the incisions. Look at the
wound for signs of infection, such as redness, swelling, tenderness, warmth,
or drainage.

Your child should take only a shower or a sponge bath until your provider says
otherwise. Steri-Strips should not be soaked in water. They will begin to peel
off after the first week. It is OK to remove them when they start to peel off.

For as long as the scar looks pink, make sure it is covered with clothing or a
bandage when your child is in the sun.

## Follow-up

Ask your child's provider before getting any immunizations for 2 to 3 months
after surgery. Afterward, your child should have a flu shot every year.

Many children who have had heart surgery must take antibiotics before, and
sometimes after, having any dental work. Make sure you have clear instructions
from your child's heart provider about when your child needs antibiotics. It
is still very important to have your child's teeth cleaned regularly.

Your child may need to take medicine when sent home. These may include
diuretics (water pills) and other heart medicines. Be sure to give your child
the correct dosage. Follow-up with your provider 1 to 2 weeks after the child
leaves the hospital or as instructed.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call the provider if your child has:

      * Fever, nausea, or vomiting
      * Chest pain, or other pain
      * Redness, swelling, or drainage from the wound
      * Difficulty breathing or shortness of breath
      * Puffy eyes or face
      * Tiredness all the time
      * Bluish or grayish skin
      * Dizziness, fainting, or heart palpitations
      * Feeding problems or reduced appetite

## Alternative Names

Congenital heart surgery - discharge; Patent ductus arteriosus ligation -
discharge; Hypoplastic left heart repair - discharge; Tetralogy of Fallot
repair - discharge; Coarctation of the aorta repair - discharge; Heart surgery
for children - discharge; Atrial septal defect repair - discharge; Ventricular
septal defect repair - discharge; Truncus arteriosus repair - discharge; Total
anomalous pulmonary artery correction - discharge; Transposition of great
vessels repair - discharge; Tricuspid atresia repair - discharge; VSD repair -
discharge; ASD repair - discharge; PDA ligation - discharge; Acquired heart
disease - discharge; Heart valve surgery - children - discharge; Heart surgery
- pediatric - discharge; Heart transplant - pediatric - discharge

## Images

      * ![Infant open heart surgery](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22868t.jpg)Infant open heart surgery

## References

Arnaoutakis DJ, Lillehei CW, Menard MT. Special techniques in pediatric
vascular surgery. In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds. _Rutherford's Vascular
Surgery and Endovascular Therapy_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 186.

Beerman LB, Kreutzer J, Allada V. Cardiology. In: Zitelli, BJ, McIntire SC,
Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Diagnosis_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 5.

Bernstein D. General principles of treatment of congenital heart disease. In:
Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 434.

Fraser CD, Kane LC. Congenital heart disease. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 58.

## Read More

      * Aortic valve surgery - minimally invasive
      * Aortic valve surgery - open
      * Atrial septal defect (ASD)
      * Coarctation of the aorta
      * Congenital heart defect - corrective surgery
      * Patent ductus arteriosus
      * Pediatric heart surgery
      * Tetralogy of Fallot
      * Transposition of the great arteries
      * Truncus arteriosus
      * Ventricular septal defect

## Patient Instructions

      * Bathroom safety - children
      * Bringing your child to visit a very ill sibling
      * Oxygen safety
      * Surgical wound care - open
      * Using oxygen at home

## Review Date 5/20/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Congenital Heart Defects
      * Heart Surgery

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

