Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001099.htm    
                                Description: Ventricular septal defectÂ is aÂ hole in the wall that separates the right and left ventricles of the heart. Ventricular septal defect is one of the most common congenital (present from birth) heart defects.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ventricular septal defect

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001099.htm

# Ventricular septal defect

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ventricular septal defectÂ is aÂ hole in the wall that separates the right and
left ventricles of the heart. Ventricular septal defect is one of the most
common congenital (present from birth) heart defects. It occurs in nearly half
of all children with congenital heart disease. It may occur by itself or with
other congenital diseases.

## Causes

Before a baby is born, the right and left ventricles of the heart are not
separate. As the fetus grows, a septal wall forms to separate these 2
ventricles. If the wall does not completely form, a hole remains. This hole is
known as a ventricular septal defect, or a VSD.Â The hole can occur in
different locations along the septal wall. There can be a single hole or
multiple holes.Â

Ventricular septal defect is a common congenital heart defect. The baby may
have no symptoms and the hole can close over time as the wall continues to
grow after birth. If the hole is large, too much blood will be pumped to the
lungs. This can lead to heart failure.

The cause of VSD is not yet known. This defect often occurs along with other
congenital heart defects.

In adults, VSDs are a rare, but serious complication of heart attacks. These
holes do not result from a birth defect.

## Symptoms

People with VSDs may not have symptoms. However, if the hole is large, the
baby often has symptoms related to heart failure.

The most common symptoms include:

      * Shortness of breath
      * Fast breathing
      * Hard breathing
      * Paleness
      * Failure to gain weight
      * Fast heart rate
      * Sweating while feeding
      * Frequent respiratory infections

## Exams and Tests

Listening with a stethoscope most often reveals a heart murmur. The loudness
of the murmur is related to the size of the defect and amount of blood
crossing the defect.

Tests may include:

      * Cardiac catheterization (rarely needed, unless there are concerns of high blood pressure in the lungs)
      * Chest x-ray \-- looks to see if there is a large heart with fluid in the lungs
      * ECG \-- shows signs of an enlarged left ventricle
      * Echocardiogram \-- used to make a definite diagnosis
      * MRI of the heart -- used to find out how much blood is getting to the lungs 

## Treatment

If the defect is small, no treatment may be needed. But the baby should be
closely monitored by a health care provider. This is to make sure that the
hole eventually closes properly and signs of heart failure do not occur.

Babies with a large VSD who have symptoms related to heart failure may need
medicine to control the symptoms and surgery to close the hole. Diuretic
medicines are often used to relieve symptoms of congestive heart failure.Â

If symptoms continue, even with medicine, surgery to close the defect with a
patch is needed. Some VSDs can be closed with a special device during a
cardiac catheterization, which avoids the need for surgery. This is called
transcatheter closure. However, only certain types of defects can successfully
be treated this way.

Having surgery for a VSD with no symptoms is controversial, especially when
there is no evidence of heart damage.Â Discuss this carefully with your
provider.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Many small defects will close on their own. Surgery can repair defects that do
not close. In most cases, a person will not have any ongoing medical issues
related to the defect if it is closed with surgery or closes on its own.
Complications may occur if a large defect is not treated and there is
permanent damage to the lungs.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Aortic insufficiency (leaking of the valve that separates the left ventricle from the aorta)
      * Damage to the electrical conduction system of the heart during surgery (causing an irregular or slow heart rhythm)
      * Delayed growth and development (failure to thrive in infancy)
      * Heart failure
      * Infective endocarditis (bacterial infection of the heart)
      * Pulmonary hypertension (high blood pressure in the lungs) leading to failure of the right side of the heart 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Most often, this condition is diagnosed during routine exam of an infant. Call
your infant's provider if the baby seems to be having trouble breathing, or if
the baby seems to have an unusual number of respiratory infections.

## Prevention

Except for VSD that is caused by a heart attack, this condition is always
present at birth.

Drinking alcohol and using the antiseizure medicines depakote and dilantin
during pregnancyÂ may increase the riskÂ for VSDs. Other than avoiding these
things during pregnancy, there is no known way to prevent a VSD.

## Alternative Names

VSD; Interventricular septal defect; Congenital heart defect - VSD

## Patient Instructions

      * Pediatric heart surgery - discharge

## Images

      * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
      * ![Heart - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view
      * ![Ventricular septal defect](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18095t.jpg)Ventricular septal defect

## References

Fraser CD, Kane LC. Congenital heart disease. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds.Â _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological
Basis of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 58.

Webb GD, Smallhorn JF, Therrien J, Redington AN. Congenital heart disease. In:
Mann DL, Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 62.

## Review Date 12/8/2017

Updated by: Steven Kang, MD, Director, Cardiac Electrophysiology, Alta Bates
Summit Medical Center, Stanford Healthcare, Oakland, CA. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Congenital Heart
Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CongenitalHeartDefects_thumb.jpg)Congenital
Heart Defects _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

