Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007321.htm    
                                Description: Ebstein anomaly is a rare heart defect in which parts of the tricuspid valve are abnormal. The tricuspid valve separates the right lower heart chamber (right ventricle) from the right upper heart chamber    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ebstein anomaly

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007321.htm

# Ebstein anomaly

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ebstein anomaly is a rare heart defect in which parts of the tricuspid valve
are abnormal. The tricuspid valve separates the right lower heart chamber
(right ventricle) from the right upper heart chamber (right atrium). In
Ebstein anomaly, the positioning of the tricuspid valve and how it functions
to separate the two chambers is abnormal.

The condition is congenital, which means it is present at birth.

## Causes

The tricuspid valve is normally made of three parts, called leaflets or flaps.
The leaflets open to allow blood to move from the right atrium (top chamber)
to the right ventricle (bottom chamber) while the heart relaxes. They close to
prevent blood from moving from the right ventricle to the right atrium while
the heart pumps.

![Ebstein's anomaly](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/22703.jpg)

In people with Ebstein anomaly, the leaflets are placed deeper into the right
ventricle instead of the normal position. The leaflets are often larger than
normal. The defect most often causes the valve to work poorly, and blood may
go the wrong way. Instead of flowing out to the lungs, the blood flows back
into the right atrium. The backup of blood flow can lead to heart enlargement
and fluid buildup in the body. There may also be narrowing of the valve that
leads to the lungs (pulmonary valve).

In many cases, people also have a hole in the wall separating the heart's two
upper chambers (atrial septal defect) and blood flow across this hole may
cause oxygen-poor blood to go to the body. This can cause cyanosis, a blue
tint to the skin caused by oxygen-poor blood.

Ebstein anomaly occurs as a baby develops in the womb. The exact cause is
unknown. The use of certain drugs (such as lithium or benzodiazepines) during
pregnancy may play a role. The condition is rare. It is more common in white
people.

## Symptoms

The abnormality can be slight or very severe. Therefore, the symptoms can also
range from mild to very severe. Symptoms can develop soon after birth, and can
include bluish-colored lips and nails due to low blood oxygen levels. In
severe cases, the baby appears very sick and has trouble breathing. In mild
cases, the affected person may be asymptomatic for many years, sometimes even
permanently.

Symptoms in older children may include:

      * Cough
      * Failure to grow
      * Fatigue
      * Rapid breathing
      * Shortness of breath
      * Very fast heartbeat 

## Exams and Tests

Newborns who have a severe leakage across the tricuspid valve will have a very
low level of oxygen in their blood and significant heart enlargement. The
health care provider may hear abnormal heart sounds, such as a murmur, when
listening to the chest with a stethoscope.

Tests that can help diagnose this condition include:

      * Chest x-ray
      * Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the heart
      * Measurement of the electrical activity of the heart (EKG)
      * Ultrasound of the heart (echocardiogram) 

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the severity of the defect and the specific symptoms.
Medical care may include:

      * Medications to help with heart failure, such as diuretics.
      * Oxygen and other breathing support.
      * Surgery to correct the valve.
      * Replacement of the tricuspid valve. This may be needed for children who continue to worsen or who have more serious complications. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In general, the earlier symptoms develop, the more severe the disease.

Some people may have either no symptoms or very mild symptoms. Others may
worsen over time, developing blue coloring (cyanosis), heart failure, heart
block, or dangerous heart rhythms.

## Possible Complications

A severe leakage can lead to swelling of the heart and liver, and congestive
heart failure.

Other complications may include:

      * Abnormal heart rhythms (arrhythmias), including abnormally fast rhythms (tachyarrhythmias) and abnormally slow rhythms (bradyarrhythmias and heart block)
      * Blood clots from the heart to other parts of the body
      * Brain abscess 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child develops symptoms of this condition. Get
medical attention right away if breathing problems occur.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention, other than talking with your provider before a
pregnancy if you are taking medicines that are thought to be related to
developing this disease. You may be able to prevent some of the complications
of the disease. For example, taking antibiotics before dental surgery may help
prevent endocarditis.

## Alternative Names

Ebstein's anomaly; Ebstein's malformation; Congenital heart defect - Ebstein;
Birth defect heart - Ebstein; Cyanotic heart disease - Ebstein

## Images

      * ![Ebstein's anomaly](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22703t.jpg)Ebstein's anomaly

## References

Bhatt AB, Foster E, Kuehl K, et al. Congenital heart disease in the older
adult: a scientific statement from the American Heart Association.
_Circulation_. 2015;131(21):1884-1931. PMID: 25896865
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25896865.

Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF. Cyanotic congenital heart
lesions: lesions associated with decreased pulmonary blood flow. In: Kliegman
RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 430.

Warnes CA, Williams RG, Bashore TM, Child JS, et al. ACC/AHA 2008 guidelines
for the management of adults with congenital heart disease: a report of the
American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on
practice guidelines (writing committee to develop guidelines on the management
of adults with congenital heart disease). _Circulation_.
2008;118(23):e714-e833. PMID: 18997169 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18997169.

Webb GD, Smallhorn JF, Therrien J, Redington AN. Congenital heart disease in
the adult and pediatric patient. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL,
Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of
Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 75.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Congenital Heart
Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CongenitalHeartDefects_thumb.jpg)Congenital
Heart Defects _Read more_

![Heart Valve
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartValveDiseases_thumb.jpg)Heart
Valve Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

