Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003266.htm    
                                Description: A heart murmur is a blowing, whooshing, or rasping sound heard during a heartbeat. The sound is caused by turbulent (rough) blood flow through the heart valves or near the heart.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heart murmurs

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003266.htm

# Heart murmurs

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A heart murmur is a blowing, whooshing, or rasping sound heard during a
heartbeat. The sound is caused by turbulent (rough) blood flow through the
heart valves or near the heart.

## Considerations

The heart has 4 chambers:

      * Two upper chambers (atria)
      * Two lower chambers (ventricles) 

The heart has valves that close with each heartbeat, causing blood to flow in
only one direction. The valves are located between the chambers.

![Heartbeat](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200083t.gif)Watch this
video about:Heartbeat

Murmurs can happen for many reasons, such as:

      * When a valve does not close tightly and blood leaks backward (regurgitation)
      * When blood flows through a narrowed or stiff heart valve (stenosis) 
![Heart valves](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/9380.jpg)

There are several ways in which your health care provider may describe a
murmur:

      * Murmurs are classified ("graded") depending on how loud the murmur sounds with a stethoscope. The grading is on a scale. Grade I can barely be heard. An example of a murmur description is a "grade II/VI murmur." (This means the murmur is grade 2 on a scale of 1 to 6).
      * In addition, a murmur is described by the stage of the heartbeat when the murmur is heard. A heart murmur may be described as systolic or diastolic. (Systole is when the heart is squeezing out blood and diastole is when it is filling up with blood.) 

When a murmur is more noticeable, the provider may be able to feel it with the
palm of the hand over the heart. This is called a "thrill".

Things the provider will look for in the exam include:

      * Does the murmur occur when the heart is resting or contracting?
      * Does it last throughout the heartbeat?
      * Does it change when you move?
      * Can it be heard in other parts of the chest, on the back, or in the neck?
      * Where is the murmur heard the loudest? 

## Causes

Many heart murmurs are harmless. These types of murmurs are called innocent
murmurs. They will not cause any symptoms or problems. Innocent murmurs DO NOT
need treatment.

Other heart murmurs may indicate an abnormality in the heart. These abnormal
murmurs can be caused by:

      * Problems of the aortic valve (aortic regurgitation, aortic stenosis)
      * Problems of the mitral valve (chronic or acute mitral regurgitation, mitral stenosis)
      * Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (idiopathic hypertrophic subaortic stenosis)
      * Pulmonary regurgitation (backflow of blood into the right ventricle, caused by failure of the pulmonary valve to close completely)
      * Pulmonary valve stenosis
      * Problems of the tricuspid valve (tricuspid regurgitation, tricuspid stenosis) 

Significant murmurs in children are more likely to be caused by:

      * Anomalous pulmonary venous return (an abnormal formation of the pulmonary veins)
      * Atrial septal defect (ASD)
      * Coarctation of the aorta
      * Patent ductus arteriosus (PDA)
      * Ventricular septal defect (VSD) 

Multiple murmurs may result from a combination of heart problems.

Children often have murmurs as a normal part of development. These murmurs DO
NOT need treatment. They may include:

      * Pulmonary flow murmurs
      * Still's murmur
      * Venous hum 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

A provider can listen to your heart sounds by placing a stethoscope on your
chest. You will be asked questions about your medical history and symptoms,
such as:

      * Have other family members had murmurs or other abnormal heart sounds?
      * Do you have a family history of heart problems?
      * Do you have chest pain, fainting, shortness of breath, or other breathing problems?
      * Have you had swelling, weight gain, or bulging veins in the neck?
      * Does your skin have a bluish color? 

The provider may ask you to squat, stand, or hold your breath while bearing
down or gripping something with your hands to listen to your heart.

The following tests may be done:

      * Chest x-ray
      * Electrocardiogram (ECG)
      * Echocardiography

## Alternative Names

Chest sounds - murmurs; Heart sounds - abnormal; Murmur - innocent; Innocent
murmur; Systolic heart murmur; Diastolic heart murmur

## Images

      * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
      * ![Heart valves](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9380t.jpg)Heart valves

## References

Fang JC, O'Gara PT. History and physical examination: an evidence-based
approach. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E,
eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 10.

Goldman L. Approach to the patient with possible cardiovascular disease. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 51.

Nishimura RA, Otto CM, Bonow RO, et al. 2017 AHA/ACC Focused update of the
2014 AHA/ACC guideline for the management of patients with valvular heart
disease: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart
Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. _Circulation_.
2017;135(25):e1159-e1195. PMID: 28298458 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28298458.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Congenital Heart
Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CongenitalHeartDefects_thumb.jpg)Congenital
Heart Defects _Read more_

![Heart Valve
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartValveDiseases_thumb.jpg)Heart
Valve Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

