Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000191.htm    
                                Description: The aorta carries blood from the heart to the vessels that supply the body with blood. If part of the aorta is narrowed, it is hard for blood to pass through the artery. This is called coarctation of the    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Coarctation of the aorta

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000191.htm

# Coarctation of the aorta

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The aorta carries blood from the heart to the vessels that supply the body
with blood. If part of the aorta is narrowed, it is hard for blood to pass
through the artery. This is called coarctation of the aorta. It is a type of
birth defect.

## Causes

The exact cause of coarctation of the aorta is unknown. It results from
abnormalities in development of the aorta prior to birth.

![Coarctation of the
aorta](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18128.jpg)

Aortic coarctation is more common in people with certain genetic disorders,
such as Turner syndrome.

Aortic coarctation is one of the more common heart conditions that are present
at birth (congenital heart defects). This abnormality accounts for about 5% of
all congenital heart defects. It is most often diagnosed in children or adults
under age 40.

People who have this problem with their aorta may also have a weak area in the
wall of blood vessels in their brain. This weakness causes the blood vessel to
bulge or balloon out. This is known as a berry aneurysm. It can increase the
risk for stroke.

Coarctation of the aorta may be seen with other congenital heart defects, such
as:

      * Bicuspid aortic valve
      * Aortic stenosis
      * Ventricular septal defect
      * Patent ductus arteriosus 

## Symptoms

Symptoms depend on how much blood can flow through the artery. Other heart
defects may also play a role.

About half of newborns with this problem will have symptoms in the first few
days of life. These can include breathing fast, problems eating, increased
irritability, and increased sleepiness or becoming poorly responsive.Â In
severe cases, the infant may develop heart failure and shock.

In milder cases, symptoms may not develop until the child has reached
adolescence. Symptoms include:

      * Chest pain
      * Cold feet or legs
      * Dizziness or fainting
      * Decreased ability to exercise
      * Failure to thrive
      * Leg cramps with exercise
      * Nosebleed
      * Poor growth
      * Pounding headache
      * Shortness of breathÂ 

There may also be no symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam andÂ check the blood
pressure and pulse in the arms and legs.

      * The pulse in the groin (femoral) area or feet will be weaker than the pulse in the arms or neck (carotid). Sometimes, the femoral pulse may not be felt at all.
      * The blood pressure in the legs is usually weaker than in the arms. Blood pressure is usually higher in the arms after infancy.

The provider will use a stethoscope to listen to the heart and check for
murmurs. People with aortic coarctation often have a harsh-sounding murmur
that can be heard underneath the left collar bone or from the back. Other
types of murmurs may also be present.

Coarctation is often discovered during a newborn's first exam or a well-baby
exam. Taking the pulse in an infant is an important part of the exam, because
there may not be any other symptoms until the child is older.

Tests to diagnose this condition may include:

      * Cardiac catheterization and aortography
      * Chest x-ray
      * Echocardiography is the most common test to diagnose this condition, and it may also be used to monitor the person after surgery
      * Heart CT may be needed in older children
      * MRI or MR angiography of the chest may be needed in older children

Both Doppler ultrasound and cardiac catheterization can be used to see if
there are any differences in blood pressure in different areas of the aorta.

## Treatment

Most newborns with symptoms will have surgery either right after birth or soon
afterward. They will firstÂ receive medicines to stabilize them.

Children who are diagnosed when they are older will also need surgery. In most
cases, the symptoms are not as severe, so more time can be taken to plan for
surgery.

During surgery, the narrowed part of the aorta will be removed or opened.

      * If the problem area is small, the two free ends of the aorta may be reconnected. This is called an end-to-end anastomosis.
      * If a large part of the aorta is removed, a graft or one of the patient's own arteries may be used to fill the gap. The graft may be man-made or from a cadaver. 

Sometimes, doctors will try to stretch open the narrowed part of the aorta by
using a balloon that is widened inside the blood vessel. This type of
procedure is called a balloon angioplasty. It may be done instead of surgery,
but it has a higher rate of failure.

Older children usually need medicines to treat high blood pressure after
surgery. Some will need lifelong treatment for this problem.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Coarctation of the aorta can be cured with surgery. Symptoms quickly get
better after surgery.

However, there is an increased risk for death due to heart problems among
those who have had their aorta repaired. Lifelong follow-up with a
cardiologist is encouraged.

Without treatment, most people die before age 40. For this reason, doctors
most often recommend that the person has surgery before age 10. Most of the
time, surgery to fix the coarctation is done during infancy.

Narrowing or coarctation of the artery can return after surgery. This is more
likely in people who had surgery as a newborn.

## Possible Complications

Complications that may occur before, during, or soon after surgery include:

      * An area of the aorta becomes very large or balloons out
      * Tear in the wall of the aorta
      * Rupture of the aorta
      * Bleeding in the brain
      * Early development of coronary artery disease (CAD)
      * Endocarditis (infection in the heart)
      * Heart failure
      * Hoarseness
      * Kidney problems
      * Paralysis of the lower half of the body (a rare complication of surgery to repair coarctation)
      * Severe high blood pressure
      * Stroke

Long-term complications include:

      * Continued or repeated narrowing of the aorta
      * Endocarditis
      * High blood pressure 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You or your child has symptoms of coarctation of the aorta
      * You develop fainting or chest pain (these may be signs of a serious problem)

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent this disorder. However, being aware of your
risk may lead to earlyÂ diagnosis and treatment.

## Alternative Names

Aortic coarctation

## Patient Instructions

      * Pediatric heart surgery - discharge

## Images

      * ![Coarctation of the aorta](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18128t.jpg)Coarctation of the aorta

## References

Fraser CD, Kane LC. Congenital heart disease. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological
Basis of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 58.

Webb GD, Smallhorn JF, Therrien J, Redington AN. Congenital heart disease. In:
Mann DL, Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 62.

## Review Date 12/8/2017

Updated by: Steven Kang, MD, Director, Cardiac Electrophysiology, Alta Bates
Summit Medical Center, Stanford Healthcare, Oakland, CA. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Congenital Heart
Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CongenitalHeartDefects_thumb.jpg)Congenital
Heart Defects _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

