Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007326.htm    
                                Description: Dextrocardia is a condition in which the heart is pointed toward the right side of the chest. Normally, the heart points toward the left. The condition is present at birth (congenital).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dextrocardia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007326.htm

# Dextrocardia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Dextrocardia is a condition in which the heart is pointed toward the right
side of the chest. Normally, the heart points toward the left. The condition
is present at birth (congenital).

## Causes

During the early weeks of pregnancy, the baby's heart develops. Sometimes, it
turns so that it points to the right side of the chest instead of the left
side. The reasons for this are unclear.

![Dextrocardia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/22698.jpg)

There are several types of dextrocardia. Many types involve other defects of
the heart and abdomen area.

In the simplest type of dextrocardia, the heart is a mirror image of the
normal heart and there are no other problems. This condition is rare. When
this occurs, the organs of the abdomen and the lungs will often also be
arranged in a mirror image. For example, the liver will be on the left side
instead of the right.

Some people with mirror-image dextrocardia have a problem with the fine hairs
(cilia) that filter the air going into their nose and air passages. This
condition is called Kartagener syndrome.

In the more common types of dextrocardia, other heart defects are also
present. The most common of these include:

      * Double outlet right ventricle (the aorta connects to the right ventricle instead of to the left ventricle)
      * Endocardial cushion defect (the walls separating all 4 chambers of the heart are poorly formed or absent)
      * Pulmonary stenosis (narrowing of the pulmonary valve) or atresia (pulmonary valve does not form properly)
      * Single ventricle (instead of two ventricles, there is a single ventricle)
      * Transposition of the great vessels (the aorta and pulmonary artery are switched)
      * Ventricular septal defect (hole in the wall that separates the right and left ventricles of the heart) 

The abdominal and chest organs in babies with dextrocardia may be abnormal and
may not work correctly. A very serious syndrome that appears with dextrocardia
is called heterotaxy. In this condition, many of the organs are not in their
usual places and may not work properly. For example, the spleen may be
completely missing. The spleen is an important part of the immune system, so
babies born without this organ are in danger of severe bacterial infections
and death. In another form of heterotaxy, several small spleens exist, but
they may not work correctly.

Heterotaxy may also include:

      * Abnormal gallbladder system
      * Problems with the lungs
      * Problems with the structure or position of the intestines
      * Severe heart defects
      * Abnormalities of the blood vessels 

Possible risk factors for dextrocardia include a family history of the
condition.

## Symptoms

There are no symptoms of dextrocardia if the heart is normal.

Conditions that may include dextrocardia may cause the following symptoms:

      * Bluish skin
      * Difficulty breathing
      * Failure to grow and gain weight
      * Fatigue
      * Jaundice (yellow skin and eyes)
      * Pale skin (pallor)
      * Repeated sinus or lung infections

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about the
symptoms.

Tests to diagnose dextrocardia include:

      * Chest x-ray
      * CT scan of the heart
      * Electrocardiogram
      * MRI of the heart
      * Echocardiogram

## Treatment

A complete mirror image dextrocardia with no heart defects requires no
treatment. It is important, however, to let the childâs health care provider
know the heart is on the right side of the chest. This information can be
important in some exams and tests.

The type of treatment needed depends on the heart or physical problems the
infant may have in addition to dextrocardia.

If heart defects are present with dextrocardia, the baby will most likely need
surgery. Babies who are very ill may need to take medicines before they can
have surgery. These medicines help the baby grow larger so surgery is easier
to perform.

Medicines include:

      * Water pills (diuretics)
      * Drugs that help the heart muscle pump more forcefully (inotropic agents)
      * Drugs that lower blood pressure and ease the workload on the heart (ACE inhibitors) 

The baby might also need surgery to correct problems in the organs of the
abdomen.

Children with Kartagener syndrome will need repeated treatment with
antibiotics for sinus infections.

Children with a missing or abnormal spleen need long-term antibiotics.

All children with heart defects may need to take antibiotics before surgeries
or dental treatments.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Babies with simple dextrocardia have a normal life expectancy and should have
no problems related to the location of the heart.

When dextrocardia appears with other defects in the heart and elsewhere in the
body, how well the baby does depends on the severity of the other problems.

Babies and children without a spleen may have frequent infections. This is at
least partially preventable with daily antibiotics.

## Possible Complications

Complications depend on whether dextrocardia is part of a larger syndrome, and
whether other problems exist in the body. Complications include:

      * Blocked intestines (due to a condition called intestinal malrotation)
      * Heart failure
      * Infection (heterotaxy with no spleen)
      * Infertility in males (Kartagener syndrome)
      * Repeated pneumonias
      * Repeated sinus infections (Kartagener syndrome)
      * Death

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your baby:

      * Seems to get frequent infections
      * Does not seem to gain weight 
      * Tires easily 

Seek emergency care if your baby has:

      * A bluish color to the skin 
      * Trouble breathing 
      * Yellow skin (jaundice) 

## Prevention

Some syndromes that include dextrocardia may run in families. If you have a
family history of heterotaxy, talk to your provider before becoming pregnant.

There are no known ways to prevent dextrocardia. However, avoiding the use of
illegal drugs (especially cocaine) before and during pregnancy may lower the
risk of this problem.

Talk to your provider if you have diabetes. This condition may contribute to
your risk of having a child with certain forms of dextrocardia.

## Alternative Names

Cyanotic heart defect - dextrocardia; Congenital heart defect - dextrocardia;
Birth defect - dextrocardia

## Images

      * ![Dextrocardia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22698t.jpg)Dextrocardia

## References

Park MK. Chamber localization and cardiac malposition. In: Park MK, ed.
_Park's Pediatric Cardiology for Practitioners_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 17.

Webb GD, Smallhorn JF, Therrien J, Redington AN. Congenital heart disease in
the adult and pediatric patient. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL,
Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of
Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 75.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Congenital Heart
Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CongenitalHeartDefects_thumb.jpg)Congenital
Heart Defects _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

