Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001567.htm    
                                Description: Tetralogy of Fallot is a type of congenital heart defect. Congenital means that it isÂ present at birth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tetralogy of Fallot

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001567.htm

# Tetralogy of Fallot

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Tetralogy of Fallot is a type of congenital heart defect. Congenital means
that it isÂ present at birth.

## Causes

Tetralogy of Fallot causes low oxygen levels in the blood. This leads to
cyanosis (a bluish-purple color to the skin).

The classic form includes four defects of the heart and its major blood
vessels:

      * Ventricular septal defect (hole between the right and left ventricles)
      * Narrowing of the pulmonary outflow tract (the valve and artery that connect the heart with the lungs)
      * Overriding aorta (the artery that carries oxygen-rich blood to the body) that is shifted over the right ventricle and ventricular septal defect, instead of coming out only from the left ventricle
      * Thickened wall of the right ventricle (right ventricular hypertrophy)

Tetralogy of Fallot is rare, but it is the most common form of cyanotic
congenital heart disease. It occurs equally as often in males and females.
People with tetralogy of Fallot are more likely to also have other congenital
defects.

The cause of most congenital heart defects is unknown. Many factors seem to be
involved.

Factors that increase the risk for this condition during pregnancy include:

      * Alcoholism in the mother
      * Diabetes
      * Mother who is over 40 years old
      * Poor nutrition during pregnancy
      * Rubella or other viral illnesses during pregnancy

Children with tetralogy of Fallot are more likely to have chromosome
disorders, such as Down syndrome, Alagille syndrome, and DiGeorge syndrome (a
condition that causes heart defects, low calcium levels, and poor immune
function).

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Blue color to the skin (cyanosis),which gets worse when the baby is upset
      * Clubbing of fingers (skin or bone enlargement around the fingernails)
      * Difficulty feeding (poor feeding habits)
      * Failure to gain weight
      * Passing out
      * Poor development
      * Squatting during episodes of cyanosis 

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam with a stethoscope almost always reveals a heart murmur.

Tests may include:

      * Chest x-ray
      * Complete blood count (CBC)
      * Echocardiogram
      * Electrocardiogram (EKG)
      * MRI of the heart (generally after surgery) 

## Treatment

Surgery to repair tetralogy of Fallot is done when the infant is very young,
typically before 6 months of age. Sometimes, more than one surgery is needed.
When more than one surgery is used, the first surgery is done to help increase
blood flow to the lungs.

Surgery to correct the problem may be done at a later time. Often only one
corrective surgery is performed in the first few months of life. Corrective
surgery is done to widen part of the narrowed pulmonary tract and close the
ventricular septal defect with a patch.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most cases can be corrected with surgery. Babies who have surgeryÂ usually do
well. More than 90% survive to adulthood and live active, healthy, and
productive lives. Without surgery, death often occurs by the time the person
reaches age 20.

People who have continued, severe leakiness of the pulmonary valve may need to
have the valve replaced.

Regular follow-up with a cardiologist is strongly recommended.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Delayed growth and development
      * Irregular heart rhythms (arrhythmias)
      * Seizures during periods when there is not enough oxygen
      * DeathÂ from cardiac arrest, even after surgical repair

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if new unexplained symptoms develop or theÂ
child is having an episode of cyanosis (blue skin).

If a child with tetralogy of Fallot becomes blue, immediately place the child
onÂ their side or back and put the knees up to the chest. Calm theÂ child and
seek medical attention right away.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention.

## Alternative Names

Tet; TOF; Congenital heart defect - tetralogy; Cyanotic heart disease -
tetralogy; Birth defect - tetralogy

## Patient Instructions

      * Pediatric heart surgery - discharge

## Images

      * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
      * ![Tetralogy of Fallot](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18088t.jpg)Tetralogy of Fallot
      * ![Cyanotic 'Tet spell'](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18134t.jpg)Cyanotic 'Tet spell'

## References

Fraser CD, Kane LC. Congenital heart disease. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological
Basis of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 58.

Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF. Cyanotic congenital heart
lesions: lesions associated with decreased pulmonary blood flow. In: Kliegman
RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 430.

Webb GD, Smallhorn JF, Therrien J, Redington AN. Congenital heart disease. In:
Mann DL, Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 62.

## Review Date 12/8/2017

Updated by: Steven Kang, MD, Director, Cardiac Electrophysiology, Alta Bates
Summit Medical Center, Stanford Healthcare, Oakland, CA. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Congenital Heart
Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CongenitalHeartDefects_thumb.jpg)Congenital
Heart Defects _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

