Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001111.htm    
                                Description: Truncus arteriosus is a rare type of heart disease in which a single blood vessel (truncus arteriosus) comes out of the right and left ventricles, instead of the normal 2 vessels (pulmonary artery and    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Truncus arteriosus

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001111.htm

# Truncus arteriosus

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Truncus arteriosus is a rare type of heart disease in which a single blood
vessel (truncus arteriosus) comes out of the right and left ventricles,
instead of the normal 2 vessels (pulmonary artery and aorta). It is present at
birth (congenital heart disease).

There are different types of truncus arteriosus.

## Causes

In normal circulation, the pulmonary artery comes out of the right ventricle
and the aorta comes out of the left ventricle, which are separate from each
other.

With truncus arteriosus, a single artery comes out of the ventricles. There is
most often also a large hole between the 2 ventricles (ventricular septal
defect). As a result, the blue (without oxygen) and red (oxygen-rich) blood
mix.

Some of this mixed blood goes to the lungs, and some goes to the rest of the
body. Often, more blood than usual ends up going to the lungs.

If this condition is not treated, two problems occur:

      * Too much blood circulation in the lungs may cause extra fluid to build up in and around them. This makes it hard to breathe.
      * If left untreated and more than normal blood flows to the lungs for a long time, the blood vessels to the lungs become permanently damaged. Over time, it becomes very hard for the heart to force blood to them. This is called pulmonary hypertension, which can be life threatening. 

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Bluish skin (cyanosis)
      * Delayed growth or growth failure
      * Fatigue
      * Lethargy
      * Poor feeding
      * Rapid breathing (tachypnea)
      * Shortness of breath (dyspnea)
      * Widening of the finger tips (clubbing) 

## Exams and Tests

A murmur is most often heard when listening to the heart with a stethoscope.

Tests include:

      * ECG
      * Echocardiogram
      * Chest x-ray
      * Cardiac catheterization
      * MRI or CT scan of the heart 

## Treatment

Surgery is needed to treat this condition. The surgery creates 2 separate
arteries.

In most cases, the truncal vessel is kept as the new aorta. A new pulmonary
artery is created using tissue from another source or using a man-made tube.
The branch pulmonary arteries are sewn to this new artery. The hole between
the ventricles is closed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Complete repair most often provides good results. Another procedure may be
needed as the child grows, because the rebuilt pulmonary artery that uses
tissue from another source will not grow with the child.

Untreated cases of truncus arteriosus result in death, often during the first
year of life.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Heart failure
      * High blood pressure in the lungs (pulmonary hypertension) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if your infant or child:

      * Appears lethargic
      * Appears overly tired or mildly short of breath
      * Does not eat well
      * Does not seem to be growing or developing normally

If the skin, lips, or nail beds look blue or if the child seems to be very
short of breath, take the child to the emergency room or have the child
examined promptly.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention. Early treatment can often prevent serious
complications.

## Alternative Names

Truncus

## Patient Instructions

      * Pediatric heart surgery - discharge

## Images

      * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
      * ![Truncus arteriosus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22706t.jpg)Truncus arteriosus

## References

Fraser CD, Kane LC. Congenital heart disease. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological
Basis of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 58.

Webb GD, Smallhorn JF, Therrien J, Redington AN. Congenital heart disease. In:
Mann DL, Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 62.

## Review Date 10/17/2017

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Congenital Heart
Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CongenitalHeartDefects_thumb.jpg)Congenital
Heart Defects _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

