Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007315.htm    
                                Description: Coronary artery fistula is an abnormal connection between one of the coronary arteries and a heart chamber or another blood vessel. The coronary arteries are blood vessels that bring oxygen-rich blood    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Coronary artery fistula

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007315.htm

# Coronary artery fistula

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Coronary artery fistula is an abnormal connection between one of the coronary
arteries and a heart chamber or another blood vessel. The coronary arteries
are blood vessels that bring oxygen-rich blood to the heart.

Fistula means abnormal connection.

![Coronary artery
fistula](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/22697.jpg)

## Causes

A coronary artery fistula is often congenital, meaning that it is present at
birth. It generally occurs when one of the coronary arteries fails to form
properly. This most often takes place when the baby is developing in the womb.
The coronary artery abnormally attaches to one of the chambers of the heart
(the atrium or ventricle) or another blood vessel (for example, the pulmonary
artery).

A coronary artery fistula can also develop after birth. It may be caused by:

      * An infection that weakens the wall of the coronary artery and the heart
      * Certain types of heart surgery
      * Injury to the heart from an accident orÂ surgery 

Coronary artery fistula is a rare condition. Infants who are born with it
sometimes also have other heart defects. These may include:

      * Hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS)
      * Pulmonary atresia with intact ventricular septum

## Symptoms

Infants with this condition often do not have any symptoms.

If symptoms do occur, they can include:

      * Heart murmur
      * Chest discomfort or pain
      * Easy fatigue
      * Failure to thrive
      * Fast or irregular heartbeat (palpitations)
      * Shortness of breath (dyspnea) 

## Exams and Tests

In most cases, this condition is not diagnosed until later in life. It is most
often diagnosed during tests for other heart diseases. However, the health
care provider may hear a heart murmur that will lead to the diagnosis with
further testing.

The main test to determine the size of the fistula is a coronary angiography.
This is a special x-ray test of the heart using dye to see how and where blood
is flowing. It is often done along with cardiac catheterization, which
involves passing a thin, flexible tube into the heart to evaluate pressure and
flow in the heart and surrounding arteries and veins.

Other diagnostic tests may include:

      * Ultrasound exam of the heart (echocardiogram)
      * Using magnets to create images of the heart (MRI)
      * CAT scan of the heart
![Coronary angiography](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18129.jpg)

## Treatment

A small fistula that is not causing symptoms very often will not need
treatment. Some small fistulas will close on their own. Often, even if they do
not close, they will never cause symptoms or need treatment.

Infants with a larger fistula will need to have surgery to close the abnormal
connection. The surgeon closes the site with a patch or stitches.

Another treatment option plugs up the opening without surgery, using a special
wire (coil) that is inserted into the heart with a long, thin tube called a
catheter. After the procedure in children, the fistula will most often close.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Children who have surgery mostly do well, although a small percentage may need
to have surgery again. Most people with this condition have a normal lifespan.

## Possible Complications

Complications include:

      * Abnormal heart rhythm (arrhythmia)
      * Heart attack
      * Heart failure
      * Opening (rupture) of the fistula
      * Poor oxygen to the heart 

Complications are more common in older people.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Coronary artery fistula is most often diagnosed during an exam by your
provider. Call your provider if your infant has symptoms of this condition.

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent this condition.

## Alternative Names

Congenital heart defect - coronary artery fistula; Birth defect heart -
coronary artery fistula

## Images

      * ![Coronary angiography](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18129t.jpg)Coronary angiography
      * ![Coronary artery fistula](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22697t.jpg)Coronary artery fistula

## References

Ashwath R, Snyder CS. Congenital defects of the cardiovascular system. In:
Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-
Perinatal Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap
84.

Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF. Acyanotic congenital heart
disease: left-to-right shunt lesions. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme
JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 426.

Marelli AJ. Congenital heart disease in adults. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 69.

Webb GD, Smallhorn JF, Therrien J, Redington AN. Congenital heart disease in
the adult and pediatric patient. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL,
Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of
Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 75.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Congenital Heart
Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CongenitalHeartDefects_thumb.jpg)Congenital
Heart Defects _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

