Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007318.htm    
                                Description: Vascular ring is an abnormal formation of the aorta, the large artery that carries blood from the heart to the rest of the body. It is a congenital problem, which means it is present at birth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vascular ring

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007318.htm

# Vascular ring

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Vascular ring is an abnormal formation of the aorta, the large artery that
carries blood from the heart to the rest of the body. It is a congenital
problem, which means it is present at birth.

## Causes

Vascular ring is rare. It accounts for less than 1% of all congenital heart
problems. The condition occurs as often in males as females. Some infants with
vascular ring also have another congenital heart problem.

Vascular ring occurs very early in the baby's development in the womb.
Normally, the aorta develops from one of several curved pieces of tissue
(arches). The body breaks down some of the remaining arches, while others form
into arteries. Some arteries that should break down do not, which forms a
vascular ring.

With vascular ring, some of the arches and vessels that should have changed
into arteries or disappeared are still present when the baby is born. These
arches form a ring of blood vessels, which encircles and presses down on the
windpipe (trachea) and esophagus.

![Vascular ring](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/22701.jpg)

Several different types of vascular ring exist. In some types, the vascular
ring only partially encircles the trachea and esophagus, but it still can
cause symptoms.

## Symptoms

Some children with a vascular ring never develop symptoms. However, in most
cases, symptoms are seen during infancy. Pressure on the windpipe (trachea)
and esophagus can lead to breathing and digestive problems. The more the ring
presses down, the more severe the symptoms will be.

Breathing problems may include:

      * High-pitched cough
      * Loud breathing (stridor)
      * Repeated pneumonias or respiratory infections
      * Respiratory distress
      * Wheezing 

Eating may make breathing symptoms worse.

Digestive symptoms are rare, but may include:

      * Choking
      * Difficulty eating solid foods
      * Difficulty swallowing (dysphagia)
      * Gastroesophageal reflux (GERD)
      * Slow breast or bottle feeding
      * Vomiting 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will listen to the baby's breathing to rule out other
breathing disorders such as asthma. Listening to the child's heart through a
stethoscope can help identify murmurs and other heart problems.

The following tests can help diagnose vascular ring:

      * Chest x-ray
      * Computed tomography (CT) scan of the heart and major blood vessels
      * Camera down the throat to examine the airways (bronchoscopy)
      * Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the heart and major blood vessels
      * Ultrasound examination (echocardiogram) of heart
      * X-ray of blood vessels (angiography)
      * X-ray of the esophagus using a special dye to better highlight the area (esophagram or barium swallow) 

## Treatment

Surgery is usually performed as soon as possible on children with symptoms.
The goal of surgery is to split the vascular ring and relieve pressure on the
surrounding structures. The procedure is usually done through a small surgical
cut in the left side of the chest between the ribs.

Changing the child's diet may help relieve the digestive symptoms of vascular
ring. The provider will prescribe medications (such as antibiotics) to treat
any respiratory tract infections, if they occur.

Children who do not have symptoms may not need treatment, but should be
carefully watched to make sure the condition does not become worse.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well the infant does depends on how much pressure the vascular ring is
putting on the esophagus and trachea and how quickly the infant is diagnosed
and treated.

Surgery works well in most cases and often relieves symptoms right away.
Severe breathing problems may take months to go away. Some children may
continue to have loud breathing, especially when they are very active or have
respiratory infections.

## Possible Complications

Delaying surgery in serious cases can lead to serious complications, such as
damage to the trachea and death.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your baby has symptoms of vascular ring. Getting
diagnosed and treated quickly can prevent serious complications.

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent this condition.

## Alternative Names

Right aortic arch with aberrant subclavian and left ligamentum ateriosus;
Congenital heart defect - vascular ring; Birth defect heart - vascular ring

## Images

      * ![Vascular ring](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22701t.jpg)Vascular ring

## References

Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF. Other congenital heart and
vascular malformations. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF,
eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 432.

Park MK. Vascular ring. In: Park MK, ed. _Park's Pediatric Cardiology for
Practitioners_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 16.

Webb GD, Smallhorn JF, Therrien J, Redington AN. Congenital heart disease in
the adult and pediatric patient. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL,
Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwaldâs Heart Disease: A Textbook of
Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 75.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Congenital Heart
Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CongenitalHeartDefects_thumb.jpg)Congenital
Heart Defects _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

