Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001560.htm    
                                Description: Patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) is a condition in which the ductus arteriosus does not close. The word &quot;patent&quot; means open.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Patent ductus arteriosus

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001560.htm

# Patent ductus arteriosus

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) is a condition in which the ductus arteriosus
does not close. The word "patent" means open.

The ductus arteriosus is a blood vessel that allows blood to go around the
baby's lungs before birth. Soon after the infant is born and the lungs fill
with air, the ductus arteriosus is no longer needed. It most often closes in a
couple of days after birth. If the vessel doesn't close, it is referred to as
a PDA.

PDA leads to abnormal blood flow between the 2 major blood vessels that carry
blood from the heart to the lungs and to the rest of the body.

## Causes

PDA is more common in girls than boys. The condition is more common in
premature infants and those with neonatal respiratory distress syndrome.
Infants with genetic disorders, such as Down syndrome, or babies whose mothers
had rubella during pregnancy are at higher risk for PDA.

PDA is common in babies with congenital heart problems, such as hypoplastic
left heart syndrome, transposition of the great vessels, and pulmonary
stenosis.

## Symptoms

A small PDA may not cause any symptoms. However, some infants may have
symptoms such as:

      * Fast breathing
      * Poor feeding habits
      * Rapid pulse
      * Shortness of breath 
      * Sweating while feeding
      * Tiring very easily
      * Poor growth

## Exams and Tests

Babies with PDA often have a heart murmur that can be heard with a
stethoscope. However, in premature infants, a heart murmur may not be heard.
The health care provider may suspect the condition if the infant has breathing
or feeding problems soon after birth.

Changes may be seen on chest x-rays. The diagnosis is confirmed with an
echocardiogram.

Sometimes, a small PDA may not be diagnosed until later in childhood.

## Treatment

If there are no other heart defects present, often the goal of treatment is to
close the PDA. If the baby has certain other heart problems or defects,
keeping the ductus arteriosus open may be lifesaving. Medicine may be used to
stop it from closing.

Sometimes, a PDA may close on its own. In premature babies, it often closes
within the first 2 years of life. In full-term infants, a PDA that remains
open after the first several weeks rarely closes on its own.

When treatment is needed, medicines such as indomethacin or ibuprofen are
often the first choice. Medicines can work very well for some newborns, with
few side effects. The earlier treatment is given, the more likely it is to
succeed.

If these measures do not work or can't be used, the baby may need to have a
medical procedure.

A transcatheter device closure is a procedure that uses a thin, hollow tube
placed into a blood vessel. The doctor passes a small metal coil or other
blocking device through the catheter to the site of the PDA. This blocks blood
flow through the vessel. These coils can help the baby avoid surgery.

Surgery may be needed if the catheter procedure does not work or it cannot be
used due to the baby's size or other reasons. Surgery involves making a small
cut between the ribs to repair the PDA.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If a small PDAÂ stays open, the baby may eventually develop heart symptoms.
Babies with a larger PDA could develop heart problems such as heart failure,
high blood pressure in the arteries of the lungs, or an infection of the inner
lining of the heartÂ if the PDA does not close.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

This condition is most often diagnosed by the provider who examines your
infant. Breathing and feeding problems in an infant can sometimes be due to a
PDA that has not been diagnosed.

## Alternative Names

PDA

## Patient Instructions

      * Pediatric heart surgery - discharge

## Images

      * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
      * ![Patent ductus arteriosis \(PDA\) - series - Infant heart anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7065t.jpg)Patent ductus arteriosis (PDA) - series

## References

Fraser CD, Kane LC. Congenital heart disease. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological
Basis of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 58.

Webb GD, Smallhorn JF, Therrien J, Redington AN. Congenital heart disease. In:
Mann DL, Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 62.

## Review Date 10/17/2017

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Congenital Heart
Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CongenitalHeartDefects_thumb.jpg)Congenital
Heart Defects _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

