Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007328.htm    
                                Description: Double outlet right ventricle (DORV) is a heart disease that is present from birth (congenital). The aorta connects to the right ventricle (RV, the chamber of the heart that pumps oxygen-poor blood to    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Double outlet right ventricle

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007328.htm

# Double outlet right ventricle

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Double outlet right ventricle (DORV) is a heart disease that is present from
birth (congenital). The aorta connects to the right ventricle (RV, the chamber
of the heart that pumps oxygen-poor blood to the lungs), instead of to the
left ventricle (LV, the chamber that normally pumps oxygen-rich blood to the
body).

Both the pulmonary artery (which carries oxygen-poor blood to the lungs) and
aorta (which carries oxygen-rich blood from the heart to the body) come from
the same pumping chamber. No arteries are connected to the left ventricle (the
chamber that normally pumps blood to the body).

## Causes

In a normal heart structure, the aorta connects to the LV. The pulmonary
artery normally is connected to the RV. In DORV, both arteries flow out of the
RV. This is a problem because the RV carries oxygen-poor blood. This blood is
then circulated throughout the body.

Another defect called a ventricular septal defect (VSD) always occurs with
DORV.

![Doble salida ventricular
derecha](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/22713.jpg)

Oxygen-rich blood from the lungs flows from the left side of the heart,
through the VSD opening and into the RV. This helps the infant with DORV by
allowing oxygen-rich blood to mix with oxygen-poor blood. Even with this
mixture, the body may not get enough oxygen. This makes the heart work harder
to meet the body's needs. There are several types of DORV.

The difference between these types is the location of the VSD as it relates to
the location of the pulmonary artery and aorta. The symptoms and severity of
the problem will depend on the type of DORV. The presence of pulmonary valve
stenosis also affects the condition.

People with DORV often have other heart defects, such as:

      * Endocardial cushion defects (the walls separating all four chambers of the heart are poorly formed or absent)
      * Coarctation of the aorta (narrowing of the aorta)
      * Mitral valve problems
      * Pulmonary atresia (pulmonary valve does not form properly)
      * Pulmonary valve stenosis (narrowing of the pulmonary valve)
      * Right-sided aortic arch (aortic arch is on right instead of the left)
      * Transposition of the great arteries (the aorta and pulmonary artery are switched) 

## Symptoms

Signs of DORV may include:

      * Enlarged heart
      * Heart murmur
      * Rapid breathing
      * Rapid heartbeat

Symptoms of DORV may include:

      * Poor feeding from becoming tired easily
      * Bluish color of the skin and lips
      * Clubbing (thickening of the nail beds) of toes and fingers (late sign)
      * Failure to gain weight and grow
      * Pale coloring
      * Sweating
      * Swollen legs or abdomen
      * Trouble breathing 

## Exams and Tests

Tests to diagnose DORV include:

      * Chest x-rays
      * Ultrasound exam of the heart (echocardiogram)
      * Passing a thin, flexible tube into the heart to measure blood pressure and inject dye for special pictures of the heart and arteries (cardiac catheterization)
      * Heart MRI

## Treatment

Treatment requires surgery to close the hole in the heart and direct blood
from the left ventricle into the aorta. Surgery may also be needed to move the
pulmonary artery or aorta.

Factors that determine the type and number of operations the baby needs
include:

      * The type of DORV
      * The severity of the defect
      * The presence of other problems in the heart
      * The child's overall condition 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well the baby does depends on:

      * The size and location of the VSD
      * The size of the pumping chambers
      * The location of the aorta and pulmonary artery
      * The presence of other complications (such as coarctation of the aorta and mitral valve problems)
      * The baby's overall health at the time of diagnosis
      * Whether lung damage has occurred from too much blood flowing to the lungs for a long period of time 

## Possible Complications

Complications from DORV may include:

      * Heart failure
      * High blood pressure in the lungs, which untreated can lead to permanent lung damage
      * Death

Children with this heartÂ condition may need to take antibiotics before dental
treatment. This prevents infections around the heart. Antibiotics may also be
needed after surgery.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if your child seems to tire easily, has trouble
breathing, or has bluish skin or lips. You should also consult your provider
if your baby is not growing or gaining weight.

## Alternative Names

DORV; Taussig-Bing anomaly; DORV with doubly-committed VSD; DORV with
noncommitted VSD; DORV with subaortic VSD; Congenital heart defect - DORV;
Cyanotic heart defect - DORV; Birth defect - DORV

## Images

      * ![Double outlet right ventricle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22713t.jpg)Double outlet right ventricle

## References

Kouchoukos NT, Blackstone EH, Hanley FL, Kirklin JK. Double outlet right
ventricle. In: Kouchoukos NT, Blackstone EH, Hanley FL, Kirklin JK, eds.
_Kirklin/Barratt-Boyes Cardiac Surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2013:chap 53.

Park MK. Cyanotic congenital heart defects. In: Park MK, ed. _Park's Pediatric
Cardiology for Practitioners_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 14.

Webb GD, Smallhorn JF, Therrien J, Redington AN. Congenital heart disease in
the adult and pediatric patient. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL,
Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of
Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 75.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Congenital Heart
Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CongenitalHeartDefects_thumb.jpg)Congenital
Heart Defects _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

