Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001113.htm    
                                Description: Patent foramen ovale (PFO) is a hole between the left and right atria (upper chambers) of the heart. This hole exists in everyone before birth, but most often closes shortly after being born. PFO is what    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Patent foramen ovale

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001113.htm

# Patent foramen ovale

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Patent foramen ovale (PFO) is a hole between the left and right atria (upper
chambers) of the heart. This hole exists in everyone before birth, but most
often closes shortly after being born. PFO is what the hole is called when it
fails to close naturally after a baby is born.

## Causes

A foramen ovale allows blood toÂ go aroundÂ the lungs. A baby's lungs are not
used when it grows in the womb, so the hole does not cause problems in an
unborn infant.

The opening is supposed to close soon after birth, but sometimes it does not.
In about 1 out of 4 people, the opening never closes. If it does not close, it
is called a PFO.

The cause of a PFO is unknown. There are no known risk factors.Â It can be
found along with other heart abnormalities such as atrial septal aneurysms or
Chiari network.

## Symptoms

Infants with a PFO and no other heart defects do not have symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

An echocardiogram can be done to diagnose a PFO. If the PFO is not easily
seen, a cardiologist can perform a "bubble test." Saline solution (salt water)
is injected into the body as the cardiologist watches the heart on an
ultrasound (echocardiogram) monitor. If a PFO exists, tiny air bubbles will be
seen moving from the right to left side of the heart.

## Treatment

This condition is not treated unless there are other heart problems, symptoms,
or if the person had a stroke caused by a blood clot to the brain.

Treatment most often requires a procedure called cardiac catheterization,
which is performed by a trained cardiologist to permanently seal the PFO.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

An infant who has no other heart defects will have normal health and life
span.

## Possible Complications

Unless there are other defects, there are no complications from a PFO in most
cases.

Some people may have a condition shortness of breath and low arterial blood
oxygen levels when sitting or standing. This is called platypnea-orthodeoxia.
This is rare.Â

Very rarely, people with PFOs may have a higher rate of a certain type of
stroke (called paradoxical thromboembolic stroke). In a paradoxical stroke, a
blood clot that develops in a vein (often leg veins) breaks free and travels
to the right side of the heart. Normally, this clot would then continue to the
lungs, but in someone with a PFO, the clot could pass through the hole to the
left side of the heart. It may then be pumped out to the body, travel to the
brain and become stuck there, preventing blood flow to that part of the brain
(stroke).

Some people may take medicines to prevent blood clots.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if your baby turns blue when crying or having a
bowel movement, has difficulty feeding, or showing poor growth.

## Alternative Names

PFO; Congenital heart defect - PFO

## Images

      * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle

## References

Satpathy HK. Patent foramen ovale. In: Ferri FF, ed. _Ferri's Clinical Advisor
2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:960.

Webb GD, Smallhorn JF, Therrien J, Redington AN. Congenital heart disease. In:
Mann DL, Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 62.

## Review Date 12/8/2017

Updated by: Steven Kang, MD, Director, Cardiac Electrophysiology, Alta Bates
Summit Medical Center, Stanford Healthcare, Oakland, CA. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Congenital Heart
Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CongenitalHeartDefects_thumb.jpg)Congenital
Heart Defects _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

