Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007319.htm    
                                Description: Aortopulmonary window is a rare heart defect in which there is a hole connecting the major artery taking blood from the heart to the body (the aorta) and the one taking blood from the heart to the lungs    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aortopulmonary window

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007319.htm

# Aortopulmonary window

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Aortopulmonary window is a rare heart defect in which there is a hole
connecting the major artery taking blood from the heart to the body (the
aorta) and the one taking blood from the heart to the lungs (pulmonary
artery). The condition is congenital, which means it is present at birth.

## Causes

Normally, blood flows through the pulmonary artery into the lungs, where it
picks up oxygen. Then the blood travels back to the heart and is pumped to the
aorta and the rest of the body.

![Aortopulmonary
window](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/22711.jpg)

Babies with an aortopulmonary window have a hole in between the aorta and
pulmonary artery. Because of this hole, blood from the aorta flows into the
pulmonary artery, and as a result too much blood flows to the lungs. This
causes high blood pressure in the lungs (a condition called pulmonary
hypertension) and congestive heart failure. The bigger the defect, the more
blood that is able to enter the pulmonary artery.

The condition occurs when the aorta and pulmonary artery do not divide
normally as the baby develops in the womb.

Aortopulmonary window is very rare. It accounts for less than 1% of all
congenital heart defects.

This condition can occur on its own or with other heart defects such as:

      * Tetralogy of Fallot
      * Pulmonary atresia
      * Truncus arteriosus
      * Atrial septal defect
      * Patent ductus arteriosus
      * Interrupted aortic arch 

Fifty percent of people usually have no other heart defects.

## Symptoms

If the defect is small, it may not cause any symptoms. However, most defects
are large.

Symptoms can include:

      * Delayed growth
      * Heart failure
      * Irritability
      * Poor eating and lack of weight gain
      * Rapid breathing
      * Rapid heartbeat
      * Respiratory infections

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will usually hear an abnormal heart sound (murmur)
when listening to the child's heart with a stethoscope.

The provider may order tests such as:

      * Cardiac catheterization -- a thin tube inserted into blood vessels and/or arteries around the heart to view the heart and blood vessels and directly measure pressure in the heart and lungs.
      * Chest x-ray.
      * Echocardiogram.
      * MRI of the heart. 

## Treatment

The condition usually requires open heart surgery to repair the defect.
Surgery should be done as soon as possible after the diagnosis is made. In
most cases, this is when the child is still a newborn.

During the procedure, a heart-lung machine takes over for the child's heart.
The surgeon opens the aorta and closes the defect with a patch made either
from a piece of the sac that encloses the heart (the pericardium) or a man-
made material.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Surgery to correct aortopulmonary window is successful in most cases. If the
defect is treated quickly, the child should not have any lasting effects.

## Possible Complications

Delaying treatment can lead to complications such as:

      * Congestive heart failure
      * Pulmonary hypertension or Eisenmenger syndrome
      * Death

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child has symptoms of aortopulmonary window. The
sooner this condition is diagnosed and treated, the better the child's
prognosis.

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent aortopulmonary window.

## Alternative Names

Aortopulmonary septal defect; Aortopulmonary fenestration; Congenital heart
defect - aortopulmonary window; Birth defect heart - aortopulmonary window

## Images

      * ![Aortopulmonary window](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22711t.jpg)Aortopulmonary window

## References

Hirsch-Romano JC, Ohye RG, Si M-S, Bove EL. Truncus arteriosus and
aortopulmonary window. In: Sellke FW, del Nido PJ, Swanson SJ, eds. _Sabiston
and Spencer Surgery of the Chest_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 121.

Park MK. Miscellaneous congenital cardiac conditions. In: Park MK, ed. _Park's
Pediatric Cardiology for Practitioners_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 15.

Webb GD, Smallhorn JF, Therrien J, Redington AN. Congenital heart disease in
the adult and pediatric patient. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL,
Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of
Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 75.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Congenital Heart
Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CongenitalHeartDefects_thumb.jpg)Congenital
Heart Defects _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

