Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007316.htm    
                                Description: Double aortic arch is an abnormal formation of the aorta, the large artery that carries blood from the heart to the rest of the body. It is a congenital problem, which means that it is present at birth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Double aortic arch

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007316.htm

# Double aortic arch

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Double aortic arch is an abnormal formation of the aorta, the large artery
that carries blood from the heart to the rest of the body. It is a congenital
problem, which means that it is present at birth.

## Causes

Double aortic arch is a common form of a group of defects that affect the
development of the aorta in the womb. These defects cause an abnormal
formation called a vascular ring (a circle of blood vessels).

Normally, the aorta develops from one of several curved pieces of tissue
(arches). As babies develop in the womb, the arches split into several parts.
The body breaks down some of the arches, while others form into arteries. A
normally developed aorta is a single arch that leaves the heart and moves
leftward.

![Double aortic arch](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/22699.jpg)

In double aortic arch, some of the arches that should have disappeared are
still present at birth in addition to the normal arch. Babies with a double
aortic arch have an aorta that is made up of two vessels instead of one. The
two parts to the aorta have smaller arteries branching off of them. As a
result, the two branches go around and press down on the windpipe and the tube
(esophagus) that carries food from the mouth to the stomach.

A double aortic arch may occur in other congenital heart defects, including:

      * Tetralogy of Fallot
      * Truncus arteriosus
      * Transposition of the great arteries
      * Ventricular septal defect

Double aortic arch is very rare. Vascular rings make up a small percentage of
all congenital heart problems. Of these, a little more than half are caused by
double aortic arch. The condition occurs equally in males and females. It is
often present in people with certain chromosome abnormalities.

## Symptoms

Because symptoms of double aortic arch are often mild, the problem may not be
discovered until the child is a few years old.

The double aortic arch may press on the trachea and esophagus, leading to
trouble breathing and swallowing. The severity of the symptoms depends on how
much the aortic arch is pressing on these structures.

![Vascular ring](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/22701.jpg)

Breathing symptoms include:

      * High-pitched sound during breathing (stridor)
      * Noisy breathing
      * Repeated pneumonias
      * Wheezing 

Digestive symptoms may include:

      * Choking
      * Difficulty eating and swallowing
      * Vomiting 

## Exams and Tests

The symptoms may lead a health care provider to suspect double aortic arch.
Other tests will then be needed to confirm the diagnosis.

The following tests can help diagnose double aortic arch:

      * Chest x-ray
      * Scans that create cross-sectional images of the body (CT or MRI scan)
      * Ultrasound examination of the heart (echocardiography)
      * X-ray using a substance that outlines the esophagus (barium swallow) 

## Treatment

Surgery can be done to fix double aortic arch. The surgeon ties off the
smaller branch and separates it from the larger branch. Then the surgeon
closes the ends of the aorta with stitches. This relieves pressure on the
esophagus and windpipe.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most children feel better right after surgery, although some may continue to
have breathing symptoms for some time after surgical repair. This is most
often due to weakness of the trachea because of the pressure on it before
surgical repair.

In rare cases, if the arch is pressing down very hard on the airway, the child
can have severe breathing difficulty that leads to death.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Failure to thrive
      * Respiratory infections
      * Wearing away of the lining of the esophagus (esophageal erosion) and windpipe
      * Very rarely, an abnormal connection between the esophagus and aorta (aortoesophageal fistula)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your infant has symptoms of double aortic arch.

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent this condition.

## Alternative Names

Aortic arch anomaly; Double arch; Congenital heart defect - double aortic
arch; Birth defect heart - double aortic arch

## Images

      * ![Vascular ring](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22701t.jpg)Vascular ring
      * ![Double aortic arch](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22699t.jpg)Double aortic arch

## References

Fraser CD, Kane LC. Congenital heart disease. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 58.

Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF. Other congenital heart and
vascular malformations. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF,
eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 432.

Park MK. Vascular ring. In: Park MK, ed. _Park's Pediatric Cardiology for
Practitioners_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 16.

Webb GD, Smallhorn JF, Therrien J, Redington AN. Congenital heart disease in
the adult and pediatric patient. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL,
Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of
Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 75.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Congenital Heart
Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CongenitalHeartDefects_thumb.jpg)Congenital
Heart Defects _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

