Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007324.htm    
                                Description: Endocardial cushion defect (ECD) is an abnormal heart condition. The walls separating all four chambers of the heart are poorly formed or absent. Also, the valves separating the upper and lower chambers    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Endocardial cushion defect

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007324.htm

# Endocardial cushion defect

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Endocardial cushion defect (ECD) is an abnormal heart condition. The walls
separating all four chambers of the heart are poorly formed or absent. Also,
the valves separating the upper and lower chambers of the heart have defects
during formation. ECD is a congenital heart disease, which means it is present
from birth.

## Causes

ECD occurs while a baby is still growing in the womb. The endocardial cushions
are two thicker areas that develop into the walls (septum) that divide the
four chambers of the heart. They also form the mitral and tricuspid valves.
These are the valves that separate the atria (top collecting chambers) from
the ventricles (bottom pumping chambers).

![Atrioventricular canal \(endocardial cushion
defect\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/22696.jpg)

The lack of separation between the two sides of the heart causes several
problems:

      * Increased blood flow to the lungs. This results in increased pressure in the lungs. In ECD, blood flows through the abnormal openings from the left to the right side of the heart, then to the lungs. More blood flow into the lungs makes the blood pressure in the lungs rise.
      * Heart failure. The extra effort needed to pump makes the heart work harder than normal. The heart muscle may enlarge and weaken. This can cause swelling in the baby, problems in breathing, and difficulty in feeding and growing.
      * Cyanosis. As the blood pressure increases in the lungs, blood starts to flow from the right side of the heart to the left. The oxygen-poor blood mixes with the oxygen-rich blood. As a result, blood with less oxygen than usual is pumped out to the body. This causes cyanosis, or bluish skin. 
![Atrial septal
defect](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18119.jpg)![Ventricular
septal defect](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18095.jpg)

There are two types of ECD:

      * Complete ECD. This condition involves an atrial septal defect (ASD) and a ventricular septal defect (VSD). People with a complete ECD have only one large heart valve (common AV valve) instead of two distinct valves (mitral and tricuspid).
      * Partial (or incomplete) ECD. In this condition, only an ASD, or an ASD and VSD are present. There are two distinct valves, but one of them (the mitral valve) is often abnormal with an opening ("cleft") in it. This defect can leak blood back through the valve. 

ECD is strongly linked to Down syndrome. Several gene changes are also linked
to ECD. However, the exact cause of ECD is unknown.

ECD may be associated with other congenital heart defects, such as:

      * Double outlet right ventricle
      * Single ventricle
      * Transposition of the great vessels
      * Tetralogy of Fallot

## Symptoms

Symptoms of ECD may include:

      * Baby tires easily
      * Bluish skin color, also known as cyanosis (the lips may also be blue)
      * Feeding difficulties
      * Failure to gain weight and grow
      * Frequent pneumonia or infectionsÂ 
      * Pale skin (pallor)
      * Rapid breathing
      * Rapid heartbeat
      * Sweating
      * Swollen legs or abdomen (rare in children)
      * Trouble breathing, especially during feeding

## Exams and Tests

During an exam, the health care provider will likely find signs of ECD,
including:

      * An abnormal electrocardiogram (ECG)
      * An enlarged heart
      * Heart murmur

Children with partial ECD may not have signs or symptoms of the disorder
during childhood.

Tests to diagnose ECD include:

      * Echocardiogram, which is an ultrasound that views the heart structures and blood flow inside the heart
      * ECG, which measures the electrical activity of the heart
      * Chest x-ray
      * MRI, which provides a detailed image of the heart
      * Cardiac catheterization, a procedure in which a thin tube (catheter) is placed into the heart to see blood flow and take accurate measurements of blood pressure and oxygen levels

## Treatment

Surgery is needed to close the holes between the heart chambers, and to create
distinct tricuspid and mitral valves. The timing of the surgery depends on the
childâs condition and the severity of the ECD. It can often be done when the
baby is 3 to 6 months old. Correcting an ECD may require more than one
surgery.

Your childâs doctor may prescribe medicine:

      * To treat the symptoms of heart failure
      * Before surgery if ECD has made your baby very sick

The medicines will help your child gain weight and strength before surgery.
Medicines often used include:

      * Diuretics (water pills)
      * Drugs that make the heart contract more forcefully, such as digoxin 

Surgery for a complete ECD should be done in the babyâs first year of life.
Otherwise, lung damage that may not be able to be reversed can occur. Babies
with Down syndrome tend to develop lung disease earlier. Therefore, early
surgery is very important for these babies.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well your baby does depends on:

      * The severity of the ECD
      * The childâs overall health
      * Whether lung disease has already developed

Many children live normal, active lives after ECD is corrected.

## Possible Complications

Complications from ECD may include:

      * Congestive heart failure
      * Death
      * Eisenmenger syndrome
      * High blood pressure in the lungs
      * Irreversible damage to the lungs 

Certain complications of ECD surgery may not appear until the child is an
adult. These include heart rhythm problems and a leaky mitral valve.

Children with ECD may be at risk for infection of the heart (endocarditis)
before and after surgery. Ask your childâs doctor whether your child needs
to take antibiotics before certain dental procedures.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your childâs provider if your child:

      * Tires easily
      * Has trouble breathing
      * Has bluish skin or lips 

Also talk to the provider if your baby is not growing or gaining weight.

## Prevention

ECD is linked with several genetic abnormalities. Couples with a family
history of ECD may wish to seek genetic counseling before becoming pregnant.

## Alternative Names

Atrioventricular (AV) canal defect; Atrioventricular septal defect; AVSD;
Common AV orifice; Ostium primum atrial septal defects; Congenital heart
defect - ECD; Birth defect - ECD; Cyanotic disease - ECD

## Images

      * ![Ventricular septal defect](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18095t.jpg)Ventricular septal defect
      * ![Atrial septal defect](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18119t.jpg)Atrial septal defect
      * ![Atrioventricular canal \(endocardial cushion defect\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22696t.jpg)Atrioventricular canal (endocardial cushion defect) 

## References

Ashwath R, Snyder CS. Congenital defects of the cardiovascular system. In:
Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-
Perinatal Medicine Diseases of the Fetus and Infant_. 10th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 84.

Backer CL, Mavroudis C. Atrioventricular canal defects. In: Mavroudis C,
Backer C, eds. _Pediatric Cardiac Surgery_. 4th ed. Oxford, UK: Wiley-
Blackwell; 2013;chap 18.

Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF. Acyanotic congenital heart
disease: left-to-right shunt lesions . In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme
JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 426.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Congenital Heart
Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CongenitalHeartDefects_thumb.jpg)Congenital
Heart Defects _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

