Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001104.htm    
                                Description: Cyanotic heart disease refers to a group of many different heart defects that are present at birth (congenital). They result in a low blood oxygen level. Cyanosis refers to a bluish color of the skin and    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cyanotic heart disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001104.htm

# Cyanotic heart disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cyanotic heart disease refers to a group of many different heart defects that
are present at birth (congenital). They result in a low blood oxygen level.
Cyanosis refers to a bluish color of the skin and mucous membranes.

## Causes

Normally, blood returns from the body and flows through the heart and lungs.

      * Blood that is low in oxygen (blue blood) returns from the body to the right side of the heart.
      * The right side of the heart then pumps the blood to the lungs, where it picks up more oxygen and becomes red.
      * The oxygen-rich blood returns from the lungs to the left side of the heart. From there, it is pumped to the rest of the body. 

Heart defects that children are born with can change the way blood flows
through the heart and lungs. These defects can cause less blood to flow to the
lungs. They can also result in blue and red blood mixing together. This causes
poorly oxygenated blood to be pumped out to the body. As a result:

      * The blood that is pumped out to the body is lower in oxygen.
      * Less oxygen delivered to the body can make the skin look blue (cyanosis). 

Some of these heart defects involve the heart valves. These defects force blue
blood to mix with red blood through abnormal heart channels. Heart valves are
found between the heart and the large blood vessels that bring blood to and
from the heart. These valves open up enough for blood to flow through. Then
they close, keeping blood from flowing backward.

Heart valve defects that can cause cyanosis include:

      * Tricuspid valve (the valve between the 2 chambers on the right side of the heart) may be absent or unable to open wide enough.
      * Pulmonary valve (the valve between the heart and the lungs) may be absent or unable to open wide enough.
      * Aortic valve (the valve between the heart and the blood vessel to the rest of the body) is unable to open wide enough. 

Other heart defects may include abnormalities in valve development or in the
location and connections between blood vessels. Some examples include:

      * Coarctation or complete interruption of the aorta
      * Ebstein anomaly
      * Hypoplastic left heart syndrome
      * Tetralogy of Fallot
      * Total anomalous pulmonary venous return
      * Transposition of the great arteries
      * Truncus arteriosus
![Tetralogy of Fallot](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18088.jpg)

Certain medical conditions in the mother can increase the risk of certain
cyanotic heart disease in the infant. Some examples include:

      * Chemical exposure
      * Genetic and chromosomal syndromes, such as Down syndrome, trisomy 13, Turner syndrome, Marfan syndrome, and Noonan syndrome
      * Infections (such as rubella) during pregnancy
      * Poorly controlled blood sugar level in women who have diabetes during pregnancy
      * Medicines prescribed by your health care provider or bought on your own and used during pregnancy
      * Street drugs used during pregnancy 

## Symptoms

Some heart defects cause major problems right after birth.

The main symptom is cyanosis is a bluish color of the lips, fingers, and toes
that is caused by the low oxygen content in the blood. It may occur while the
child is resting or only when the child is active.

![Cyanotic heart
disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18133.jpg)

Some children have breathing problems (dyspnea). They may get into a squatting
position after physical activity to relieve breathlessness.

Others have spells, in which their bodies are suddenly starved of oxygen.
During these spells, symptoms may include:

      * Anxiety
      * Breathing too quickly (hyperventilation)
      * Sudden increase in bluish color to the skin 

Infants may get tired or sweat while feeding and may not gain as much weight
as they should.

Fainting (syncope) and chest pain may occur.

Other symptoms depend on the type of cyanotic heart disease, and may include:

      * Feeding problems or reduced appetite, leading to poor growth
      * Grayish skin
      * Puffy eyes or face
      * Tiredness all the time 

## Exams and Tests

Physical examination confirms cyanosis.Â Older childrenÂ may have clubbed
fingers.

The doctor will listen to the heart and lungs with a stethoscope. Abnormal
heart sounds, a heart murmur, and lung crackles may be heard.

Tests will vary depending on the cause, but may include:

      * Chest x-ray
      * Checking oxygen level in the blood using anÂ arterial blood gas test or by checking it through the skin with a pulse oximeter
      * Complete blood count (CBC)
      * ECG (electrocardiogram)
      * Looking at the heart structure and blood vessels using echocardiogram or MRI of the heart
      * Passing a thin flexible tube (catheter) into the right or left side of the heart, usually from the groin (cardiac catheterization)
      * Transcutaneous oxygen monitor (pulse oximeter)
      * Echo-Doppler

## Treatment

Some infants may need to stay in the hospital after birth so they can receive
oxygen or be put on a breathing machine. They may receive medicines to:

      * Get rid of extra fluids
      * Help the heart pump harder
      * Keep certain blood vessels open
      * Treat abnormal heartbeats or rhythms

The treatment of choice for most congenital heart diseases is surgery to
repair the defect. There are many types of surgery, depending on the kind of
birth defect. Surgery may be needed soon after birth, or it may be delayed for
months or even years.Â Some surgeries may be staged as the child grows.Â

Your child may need to take water pills (diuretics) and other heart medicines
before or after surgery. Be sure to follow the correct dosage. Regular follow-
up with theÂ provider is important.

Many children who have had heart surgery must take antibiotics before, and
sometimes after having any dental work or other medical procedures. Make sure
you have clear instructions from your child's heart provider.

Ask your child's provider before getting any immunizations. Most children can
follow the recommended guidelines for childhood vaccinations.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook depends on the specific disorder.

## Possible Complications

Complications of cyanotic heart disease include:

      * Abnormal heart rhythms and sudden death
      * Long-term (chronic) high blood pressure in the blood vessels of the lung
      * Heart failure
      * Infection in the heart
      * Stroke
      * Death

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your baby has:

      * Bluish skin (cyanosis) or grayish skin
      * Breathing difficulty
      * Chest pain or other pain
      * Dizziness, fainting, or heart palpitations
      * Feeding problems or reduced appetite
      * Fever, nausea, or vomiting
      * Puffy eyes or face
      * Tiredness all the time

## Prevention

Women who are pregnant should get good prenatal care.

      * Avoid using alcohol and drugs during pregnancy. 
      * Tell your doctor that you are pregnant before taking any prescribed medicines.
      * Get a blood test early in the pregnancy to see if you are immune to rubella. If you are not immune, you must avoid any exposure to rubella and should get immunized right after delivery.
      * Pregnant women with diabetes should try to get good control over their blood sugar level. 

Some inherited factors may play a role in congenital heart disease. Many
family members may be affected. If you are planning to get pregnant, talk to
your doctor about screening for genetic diseases.

## Alternative Names

Right-to-left cardiac shunt; Right-to-left circulatory shunt

## Images

      * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
      * ![Cardiac catheterization](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1080t.jpg)Cardiac catheterization
      * ![Heart - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view
      * ![Tetralogy of Fallot](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18088t.jpg)Tetralogy of Fallot
      * ![Clubbing](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1598t.jpg)Clubbing
      * ![Cyanotic heart disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18133t.jpg)Cyanotic heart disease

## References

Bernstein D. Cyanotic congenital heart disease: evaluation of the critically
ill neonate with cyanosis and respiratory distress. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds.Â _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 429.

Webb GD, Smallhorn JF, Therrien J, Redington AN. Congenital heart disease. In:
Mann DL, Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 62.

## Review Date 12/8/2017

Updated by: Steven Kang, MD, Director, Cardiac Electrophysiology, Alta Bates
Summit Medical Center, Stanford Healthcare, Oakland, CA. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Congenital Heart
Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CongenitalHeartDefects_thumb.jpg)Congenital
Heart Defects _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

