Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001106.htm    
                                Description: Hypoplastic left heart syndrome occurs when parts of the left side of the heart (mitral valve, left ventricle, aortic valve, and aorta) do not develop completely. The condition is present at birth (congenital).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hypoplastic left heart syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001106.htm

# Hypoplastic left heart syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hypoplastic left heart syndrome occurs when parts of the left side of the
heart (mitral valve, left ventricle, aortic valve, and aorta) do not develop
completely. The condition is present at birth (congenital).

## Causes

Hypoplastic left heart is a rare type of congenital heart disease. It is more
common in males than in females.

As with most congenital heart defects, there is no known cause. About 10% of
babies with hypoplastic left heart syndrome also have other birth defects.Â It
is also associated with some genetic diseases such as Turner syndrome,
Jacobsen sydrome, trisomy 13 and 18.

The problem develops before birth when the left ventricle and other structures
do not grow properly, including the:

      * Aorta (the blood vessel that carries oxygen-rich blood from the left ventricle to the entire body)
      * Entrance and exit of the ventricle
      * Mitral and aortic valves

This causes the left ventricle and aorta to be poorly developed, or
hypoplastic. In most cases, the left ventricle and aorta are much smaller than
normal.

In babies with this condition, the left side of the heart is unable to send
enough blood to the body. As a result, the right side of the heart must
maintain the circulation for both the lungs and the body. The right ventricle
can support the circulation to both the lungs and the body for a while, but
this extra workload eventually causes the right side of the heart to fail.

The only possibility of survival is a connection between the right and the
left side of the heart, or between the arteries and pulmonary arteries (the
blood vessels that carry blood to the lungs). Babies are normally born with
two of these connections:

      * Foramen ovale (a hole between the right and left atrium)
      * Ductus arteriosus (a small blood vessel that connects the aorta to the pulmonary artery)

Both of these connections normally close on their own a few days after birth.

In babies with hypoplastic left heart syndrome, blood leaving the right side
of the heart through the pulmonary artery travels through the ductus
arteriosus to the aorta. This is the only way for blood to get to the body. If
the ductus arteriosus is allowed to close in a baby with hypoplastic left
heart syndrome, the baby may quickly die because no blood will be pumped to
the body. Babies with known hypoplastic left heart syndrome are usually
started on a medicine to keep the ductus arteriosus open.

Because there is little or no flow out of the left heart, blood returning to
the heart from the lungs needs to pass through the foramen ovale or an atrial
septal defect (a hole connecting the collecting chambers on the left and right
sides of the heart) back to the right side of the heart. If there is no
foramen ovale, or if it is too small, the baby could die. Babies with this
problem have the hole between their atria opened, either with surgery or using
a thin, flexible tube (heart catheterization).

## Symptoms

At first, a newborn with hypoplastic left heart may appear normal. Symptoms
may occur in the first few hours of life, although it may take up to a few
days to develop symptoms. These symptoms may include:

      * Bluish (cyanosis) or poor skin color
      * Cold hands and feet (extremities)
      * Lethargy
      * Poor pulse
      * Poor suckling and feeding
      * Pounding heart
      * Rapid breathing
      * Shortness of breath 

In healthy newborns, bluish color in the hands and feet is a response to cold
(this reaction is called peripheral cyanosis).

A bluish color in the chest or abdomen, lips, and tongue is abnormal (called
central cyanosis). It is a sign that there is not enough oxygen in the blood.
Central cyanosis often increases with crying.

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam may show signs of heart failure:

      * Faster than normal heart rate
      * Lethargy
      * Liver enlargement
      * Rapid breathing 

Also, the pulse at various locations (wrist, groin, and others) may be very
weak. There are often (but not always) abnormal heart sounds when listening to
the chest.

Tests may include:

      * Cardiac catheterization
      * ECGÂ (electrocardiogram)
      * Echocardiogram
      * X-ray of the chest

## Treatment

Once the diagnosis of hypoplastic left heart is made, the baby will be
admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit. A breathing machine (ventilator)
may be needed to help the baby breathe. A medicine called prostaglandin E1 is
used to keep blood circulating to the body by keeping the ductus arteriosus
open.

These measures do not solve the problem. The condition always requires
surgery.

The first surgery, called the Norwood operation, occurs within the baby's
first few days of life. The Norwood procedure consists of building a new aorta
by:

      * Using the pulmonary valve and artery
      * Connecting the hypoplastic old aorta and coronary arteries to the new aorta
      * Removing the wall between the atria (atrial septum)
      * Making an artificial connection from either the right ventricle or a bodywide artery to the pulmonary artery to maintain blood flow to the lungs (called a shunt)

A variation of the Norwood procedure, called the Sano procedure, may be used.
This procedure creates a right ventricle to pulmonary artery connection.Â

Afterward, the baby goes home in most cases. The child will need to take daily
medicines and be closely followed by a pediatric cardiologist, who will
determine when the second stage of surgery should be done.

Stage II of the operation is called the Glenn shunt or hemi-Fontan procedure.
It is also referred to as a cavopulmonary shunt.Â This procedure connects the
major vein carrying blue blood from the top half of the body (the superior
vena cava) directly to blood vessels to the lungs (pulmonary arteries) to get
oxygen. The surgery is most often done when the child is 4 to 6 months of age.

During stages I and II, the child may still appear somewhat blue (cyanotic).

Stage III, the final step, is called the Fontan procedure. The rest of the
veins that carry blue blood from the body (the inferior vena cava) are
connected directly to the blood vessels to the lungs. The right ventricle now
serves only as the pumping chamber for the body (no longer the lungs and the
body). This surgery is usually performed when the baby is 18 months to 4 years
old. After this final step, the child is no longer cyanotic and has a normal
oxygen level in the blood.

Some people may need more surgeries in their 20s or 30s if they develop hard
to control arrhythmias or other complications of the Fontan procedure.

Some doctors consider heart transplantation an alternative to the 3 step
surgery. But there are few donated hearts available for small infants.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If left untreated, hypoplastic left heart syndrome is fatal. Survival rates
for the staged repair continue to rise as surgery techniques and care after
surgery improve. Survival after the first stage is more than 75%.Â Children
who survive their first year have a very good chance for long-term survival.Â

The child's outcome after surgery depends on the size and function of the
right ventricle.

## Possible Complications

Complications include:

      * Blockage of the artificial shunt
      * Blood clots that can lead to stroke or pulmonary embolism  

      * Long-term (chronic) diarrhea (from a disease called protein-losing enteropathy)
      * Fluid in the abdomen (ascites) and in the lungs (pleural effusion)Â 
      * Heart failure
      * Irregular, fast heart rhythms (arrhythmias)
      * Strokes and other nervous system complications
      * Neurological impairment  

      * Sudden death 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your health care provider right away if your infant:

      * Eats less (decreased feeding)
      * Has blue (cyanotic) skin 
      * Has new changes in breathing patterns

## Prevention

There is no known prevention for hypoplastic left heart syndrome. As with many
congenital diseases, the causes of hypoplastic left heart syndrome are
uncertain and have not been linked to a mother's disease or behavior.

## Alternative Names

HLHS; Congenital heart - hypoplastic left heart; Cyanotic heart disease -
hypoplastic left heart

## Images

      * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
      * ![Heart - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view
      * ![Hypoplastic left heart syndrome](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22705t.jpg)Hypoplastic left heart syndrome

## References

Fraser CD, Kane LC. Congenital heart disease. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds.Â _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological
Basis of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 58.

Webb GD, Smallhorn JF, Therrien J, Redington AN. Congenital heart disease. In:
Mann DL, Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 62.

## Review Date 12/8/2017

Updated by: Steven Kang, MD, Director, Cardiac Electrophysiology, Alta Bates
Summit Medical Center, Stanford Healthcare, Oakland, CA. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Congenital Heart
Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CongenitalHeartDefects_thumb.jpg)Congenital
Heart Defects _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

