Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000325.htm    
                                Description: Depression is feeling sad, blue, unhappy, or down in the dumps. Most people feel this way once in a while.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Learning about depression

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000325.htm

# Learning about depression

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Depression is feeling sad, blue, unhappy, or down in the dumps. Most people
feel this way once in a while.

Clinical depression is a mood disorder. It occurs when feelings of sadness,
loss, anger, or frustration get in the way of your life over a long period of
time. It also changes how your body works.

Depression is caused by changes in the chemicals in your brain. The condition
may start during or after a painful event in your life. It may happen when you
take certain medicines. It can also start during or after pregnancy.

Sometimes there is no clear trigger or reason.

## What are the Signs of Depression?

You may notice some or all of the following problems. Talk to your doctor if
you have symptoms that last for 2 weeks or longer.

You will always have changes in your daily moods or feelings when you are
depressed. You may:

      * Feel sad or blue most or all of the time
      * Feel bad-tempered or irritable most of the time, with sudden bursts of anger
      * Not enjoy activities that normally make you happy, including sex
      * Feel hopeless or helpless
      * Not feel good about yourself, or have feelings of worthlessness, self-hate, and guilt 

Normal daily activities also change when you are depressed. You may:

      * Have trouble sleeping or sleep more than normal
      * Have a hard time concentrating
      * Move around more slowly or seem "jumpy" or agitated
      * Feel much less hungry than before, or even lose weight
      * Feel tired and lack energy
      * Become less active or stop doing usual activities 

Depression can lead to thoughts of death or suicide, which can be dangerous.
Always talk to a friend or family member and call your doctor when you have
these feelings.

## Taking Care of Your Depression at Home

There are many things you can do at home to help manage your depression, such
as:

      * Get enough sleep.
      * Follow a healthy diet.
      * Take medicines correctly. Learn how to manage side effects.
      * Watch for early signs that depression is getting worse. Have a plan if it does.
      * Try to exercise more.
      * Look for activities that make you happy. 

Avoid alcohol and illegal drugs. These can make depression worse over time.
They may also get in the way of your judgment about suicide.

Talk to someone you trust about your feelings of depression. Try to be around
people who are caring and positive. Volunteering or getting involved in group
activities may help.

If you are depressed in the fall or winter, ask your doctor about light
therapy. This treatment uses a special lamp that acts like the sun.

## Taking Medicines for Depression

Some people may feel better after a few weeks of taking antidepressant
medicines. Many people need to take these medicines for 4 to 9 months. They
need this to get a full response and prevent depression from coming back.

If you need antidepressant medicines, you should take them every day. Your
doctor may need to change the type of medicine you take or the dose.

DO NOT stop taking your medicine on your own, even if you feel better or have
side effects. Always call your doctor first. When it is time to stop your
medicine, your doctor will slowly cut down the amount you take over time.

## Talk Therapy

Talk therapy and counseling can help many people with depression. It also
helps you learn ways to deal with your feelings and thoughts.

There are many different types of talk therapy. Effective treatment often
combines:

      * Talk therapy
      * Lifestyle changes
      * Medicine 

## Images

      * ![Forms of depression](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19300t.jpg)Forms of depression

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Major depressive disorder. _Diagnostic and
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders: DSM-5_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA:
American Psychiatric Publishing. 2013:160-168.

Fava M, Ãstergaard SD, Cassano P. Mood disorders: depressive disorders (major
depressive disorder). In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds.
_Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 29.

National Institute of Mental Health website. Depression.
www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/depression/index.shtml. Updated February 2018.
Accessed October 15, 2018.

## Review Date 10/12/2018

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Depression

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

