Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000918.htm    
                                Description: Persistent depressive disorder (PDD) is a chronic (ongoing) type of depression in which a person    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Persistent depressive disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000918.htm

# Persistent depressive disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Persistent depressive disorder (PDD) is a chronic (ongoing) type of depression
in which a person's moods are regularly low.

Persistent depressive disorder used to be called dysthymia.

## Causes

The exact cause of PDD is unknown. It can run in families. PDD occurs more
often in women.

Most people with PDD will also have an episode of major depression at some
point in their lives.

Older people with PDD may have difficulty caring for themselves, struggle with
isolation, or have medical illnesses.

## Symptoms

The main symptom of PDD is a low, dark, or sad mood on most days for at least
2 years. In children and teens, the mood can be irritable instead of depressed
and lasts for at least 1 year.

In addition, two or more of the following symptoms are present almost all of
the time:

      * Feelings of hopelessness
      * Too little or too much sleep
      * Low energy or fatigue
      * Low self-esteem
      * Poor appetite or overeating
      * Poor concentration

People with PDD will often take a negative or discouraging view of themselves,
their future, other people, and life events. Problems often seem hard to
solve.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will take a history of your mood and other mental
health symptoms. The provider may also check your blood and urine to rule out
medical causes of depression.

## Treatment

There are a number of things you can try to improve PDD:

      * Get enough sleep.
      * Follow a healthy, nutritious diet.
      * Take medicines correctly. Discuss any side effects with your provider.
      * Learn to watch for early signs that your PDD is getting worse. Have a plan for how to respond if it does.
      * Try to exercise regularly.
      * Look for activities that make you happy.
      * Talk to someone you trust about how you're feeling.
      * Surround yourself with people who are caring and positive.
      * Avoid alcohol and illegal drugs. These can make your mood worse over time and impair your judgment.

Medicines are often effective for PDD, though they sometimes do not work as
well as they do for major depression and may take longer to work.

Do not stop taking your medicine on your own, even if you feel better or have
side effects. Always call your provider first.

When it's time to stop your medicine, your provider will instruct you on how
to slowly reduce the dose instead of stopping suddenly.

People with PDD may also be helped by some type of talk therapy. Talk therapy
is a good place to talk about feelings and thoughts, and to learn ways to deal
with them. It can also help to understand how your PDD has affected your life
and to cope more effectively. Types of talk therapy include:

      * Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), which helps you learn to be more aware of your symptoms and what makes them worse. You will be taught problem-solving skills.
      * Insight-oriented or psychotherapy, which can help people withÂ PDD understand factors that may be behind their depressive thoughts and feelings. 

Joining a support group for people who are having problems like yours can also
help. Ask your therapist or health care provider to recommend a group.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

PDD is a chronic condition that can last for years. Many people recover fully
while others continue to have some symptoms, even with treatment.

PDD also increases the risk of suicide.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if:

      * You regularly feel depressed or low
      * Your symptoms are getting worse

Call for help right away if you or someone you know develops signs of suicide
risk:

      * Giving away belongings, or talking about going away and the need to get "affairs in order"
      * Performing self-destructive behaviors, such as injuring themselves
      * Suddenly changing behaviors, especially being calm after a period of anxiety
      * Talking about death or suicide
      * Withdrawing from friends or being unwilling to go out anywhere

## Alternative Names

PDD; Chronic depression; Depression - chronic; Dysthymia

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Persistent depressive disorder (dysthymia).
_Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington,
VA: American Psychiatric Publishing, 2013;168-171.

Fava M, Ãstergaard SD, Cassano P. Mood disorders: depressive disorders (major
depressive disorder). In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds.
_Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 29.

## Review Date 7/8/2018

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Depression](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Depression_thumb.jpg)Depression
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

