Link: https://medlineplus.gov/giardiainfections.html    
                                Description: Giardiasis is an illness caused by a parasite. Diarrhea is the main symptom of giardia infection. Learn about who is at risk and how to treat it.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Giardia Infections

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/giardiainfections.html

#  Giardia Infections

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Giardiasis is an illness caused by a parasite called Giardia intestinalis. It
lives in soil, food, and water. It may also be on surfaces that have been
contaminated with waste. You can become infected if you swallow the parasite.
You can also get it if you're exposed to human feces (poop) through sexual
contact.

The risk of getting giardia is higher for travelers to countries where it is
common, people in child care settings, and those who drink untreated water.

Diarrhea is the main symptom of giardia infection. Others include

    * Passing gas
    * Greasy stools
    * Stomach cramps
    * Upset stomach or nausea 

These symptoms may lead to weight loss and loss of body fluids. Some people
have no symptoms at all. Symptoms of infection often last two to six weeks.
Stool sample tests can diagnose it. You often need to collect several samples
to test. Doctors use several drugs to treat it.

The best way to prevent giardia infection is to practice good hygiene,
including frequent hand washing. You should not drink water that may be
contaminated. You should also peel or wash fresh fruit and vegetables before
eating.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Start Here

    * Giardia Infection (Giardiasis) (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Giardia: General Information (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Giardiasis (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Diagnosis of Parasitic Diseases (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Giardia: Illness & Symptoms (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Ova and Parasite Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Giardia Prevention and Control: General Public (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Giardia Infection Treatment (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Related Issues

    * Giardia & Pets (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Giardia and Drinking Water from Private Wells (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Travelers' Health: Water Disinfection for Travelers (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Giardiasis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Characterisation of the in vitro activity of a Nitazoxanide-N-methyl-1H-benzimidazole hybrid molecule...
    * Article: Investigations from Northern Greece on mussels cultivated in areas proximal to...
    * Article: Intestinal parasite infections and associated factors among inmates of Arba Minch...
    * Giardia Infections -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
    * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * Giardiasis (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)

## Patient Handouts

    * Giardiasis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Stool ova and parasites exam (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Giardia Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GiardiaInfections.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Giardiasis
    * Stool ova and parasites exam

## Related Health Topics

    * Drinking Water
    * Parasitic Diseases

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Giardia Infections is the
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 4 April 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

