Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001521.htm    
                                Description: Depression is a mental health condition. It is a mood disorder in which feelings of sadness, loss, anger, or frustration interfere with daily life for weeks or longer.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Depression in older adults

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001521.htm

# Depression in older adults

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Depression is a mental health condition. It is a mood disorder in which
feelings of sadness, loss, anger, or frustration interfere with daily life for
weeks or longer.

Depression in older adults is a widespread problem, but it is not a normal
part of aging. It is often not recognized or treated.

## Causes

In older adults, life changes can increase the risk for depression or make
existing depression worse. Some of these changes are:

      * A move from home, such as to a retirement facility
      * Chronic illness or pain
      * Children moving away
      * Spouse or close friends passing away
      * Loss of independence (for example, problems getting around or caring for oneself, or loss of driving privileges) 

Depression can also be related to a physical illness, such as:

      * Thyroid disorders
      * Parkinson disease
      * Heart disease
      * Cancer
      * Stroke
      * Dementia (such as Alzheimer disease) 

Overuse of alcohol or certain medicines (such as sleep aids) can make
depression worse.

## Symptoms

Many of the usual symptoms of depression may be seen. However, depression in
older adults may be hard to detect. Common symptoms such as fatigue, appetite
loss, and trouble sleeping can be part of the aging process or a physical
illness. As a result, early depression may be ignored, or confused with other
conditions that are common in older adults.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. Questions will be asked
about medical history and symptoms.

Blood and urine tests may be done to look for a physical illness.

A mental health specialist may be needed to help with diagnosis and treatment.

## Treatment

The first steps of treatment are to:

      * Treat any illness that may be causing the symptoms.
      * Stop taking any medicines that may be making symptoms worse.
      * Avoid alcohol and sleep aids.

If these steps do not help, medicines to treat depression and talk therapy
often help.

Doctors often prescribe lower doses of antidepressants to older people, and
increase the dose more slowly than in younger adults.

To better manage depression at home:

      * Exercise regularly, if the provider says it is OK.
      * Surround yourself with caring, positive people and do fun activities.
      * Learn good sleep habits.
      * Learn to watch for the early signs of depression, and know how to react if these occur.
      * Drink less alcohol and do not use illegal drugs.
      * Talk about your feelings with someone you trust.
      * Take medicines correctly and discuss any side effects with the provider.Â 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Depression often responds to treatment. The outcome is usually better for
people who have access to social services, family, and friends who can help
them stay active and engaged.

The most worrisome complication of depression is suicide. Men make up most
suicides among older adults. Divorced or widowed men are at the highest risk.

Families should pay close attention to older relatives who are depressed and
who live alone.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you keep feeling sad, worthless, or hopeless, or if you
cry often. Also call if you're having trouble coping with stresses in your
life and want to be referred for talk therapy.

Go to the nearest emergency room or call your local emergency number (such as
911) if you are thinking about suicide (taking your own life).

If you are caring for an aging family member and think they may have
depression, contact their provider.

## Alternative Names

Depression in the elderly

## Images

      * ![Depression among the elderly](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19299t.jpg)Depression among the elderly

## References

Abbasi O, Burke WJ. Depression. In: Ham RJ, Sloane PD, Warshaw GA, Potter JF,
Flaherty E, eds. _Ham's Primary Care Geriatrics: A Case-Based Approach_. 6th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 18.

Fox C, Hameed Y, Maidment I, Laidlaw K, Hilton A, Kishita N. Mental illness in
older adults. In: Fillit HM, Rockwood K, Young J, eds. _Brocklehurst's
Textbook of Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 56.

Siu AL; US Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF), Bibbins-Domingo K, et al.
Screening for depression in adults: US Preventive Services Task Force
recommendation statement. _JAMA_. 2016;315(4):380-387. PMID: 26813211
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26813211.

## Review Date 7/8/2018

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Depression](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Depression_thumb.jpg)Depression
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

