Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003213.htm    
                                Description: Depression may be described as feeling sad, blue, unhappy, miserable, or down in the dumps. Most of us feel this way at one time or another for short periods.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Depression - overview

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003213.htm

# Depression - overview

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Depression may be described as feeling sad, blue, unhappy, miserable, or down
in the dumps. Most of us feel this way at one time or another for short
periods.

Clinical depression is a mood disorder in which feelings of sadness, loss,
anger, or frustration interfere with everyday life for weeks or more.

## Considerations

Depression can occur in people of all ages:

      * Adults
      * Teenagers
      * Older adults

Symptoms of depression include:

      * Low mood or irritable mood most of the time
      * Trouble sleeping or sleeping too much
      * A big change in appetite, often with weight gain or loss
      * Tiredness and lack of energy
      * Feelings of worthlessness, self-hate, and guilt
      * Difficulty concentrating
      * Slow or fast movements
      * Lack of activity and avoiding usual activities
      * Feeling hopeless or helpless
      * Repeated thoughts of death or suicide
      * Lack of pleasure in activities you usually enjoy, including sex 

Remember that children may have different symptoms than adults. Watch for
changes in schoolwork, sleep, and behavior. If you wonder whether your child
might be depressed, talk with your health care provider. Your provider can
help you learn how to help your child with depression.

![Depression in
children](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19294.jpg)

The main types of depression include:

      * Major depression. It occurs when feelings of sadness, loss, anger, or frustration interfere with daily life for weeks or longer periods of time.
      * Persistent depressive disorder. This is a depressed mood that lasts 2 years. Over that length of time, you may have periods of major depression, with times when your symptoms are milder. 

Other common forms of depression include:

      * Postpartum depression. Many women feel somewhat down after having a baby. However, true postpartum depression is more severe and includes the symptoms of major depression.
      * Premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD). Symptoms of depression occur 1 week before your period and disappear after you menstruate.
      * Seasonal affective disorder (SAD). This occurs most often during fall and winter, and disappears during spring and summer. It is most likely due to a lack of sunlight.
      * Major depression with psychotic features. This occurs when a person has depression and loss of touch with reality (psychosis). 

Bipolar disorder occurs when depression alternates with mania (formerly called
manic depression). Bipolar disorder has depression as one of its symptoms, but
it is a different type of mental illness.

## Causes

Depression often runs in families. This may be due to your genes, behaviors
you learn at home, or your environment. Depression may be triggered by
stressful or unhappy life events. Often, it is a combination of these things.

Many factors can bring on depression, including:

      * Alcohol or drug use
      * Medical conditions, such as cancer or long-term (chronic) pain
      * Stressful life events, such as job loss, divorce, or death of a spouse or other family member
      * Social isolation (a common cause of depression in older adults) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call 911, a suicide hotline, or go to a nearby emergency room if you have
thoughts of hurting yourself or others.

Call your provider if:

      * You hear voices that are not there.
      * You cry often without cause.
      * Your depression has affected your work, school, or family life for longer than 2 weeks.
      * You have three or more symptoms of depression.
      * You think one of your current medicines may be making you feel depressed. DO NOT change or stop taking any medicines without talking to your provider.
      * If you think your child or teen may be depressed. 

You should also call your provider if:

      * You think you should cut back on drinking alcohol
      * A family member or friend has asked you to cut back on drinking alcohol
      * You feel guilty about the amount of alcohol you drink
      * You drink alcohol first thing in the morning 

## Alternative Names

Blues; Gloom; Sadness; Melancholy

## Images

      * ![Depression in children](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19294t.jpg)Depression in children
      * ![Depression and heart disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19295t.jpg)Depression and heart disease
      * ![Depression and the menstrual cycle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19296t.jpg)Depression and the menstrual cycle
      * ![Depression and insomnia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19297t.jpg)Depression and insomnia

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Depressive disorders. In: American
Psychiatric Association. _Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental
Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing.
2013:155-188.  

Fava M, Ãstergaard SD, Cassano P. Mood disorders: depressive disorders (major
depressive disorder). In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds.
_Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 29.

Kraus C, Kadriu B, Lanzenberger R, Zarate Jr CA, Kasper S. Prognosis and
improved outcomes in major depression: a review. _Transl Psychiatry._
2019;9(1):127. PMID: 30944309 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30944309.

Walter HJ, DeMaso DR. Mood disorders. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ,
Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics._ 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 39.

Zuckerbrot RA, Cheung A, Jensen PS, Stein REK, Laraque D; GLAD-PC STEERING
GROUP. Guidelines for adolescent depression in primary care (GLAD-PC): part I.
Practice preparation, identification, assessment, and initial management.
_Pediatrics._ 2018;141(3). pii: e20174081. PMID: 29483200
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29483200.

## Review Date 5/5/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Internal review and update on 04/15/2019 by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Depression](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Depression_thumb.jpg)Depression
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

