Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000149.htm    
                                Description: Your child has hydrocephalus and needed a shunt placed to drain excess fluid and relieve pressure in the brain. This buildup of brain and spinal cord fluid (cerebrospinal fluid, or CSF) and pressure causes    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ventriculoperitoneal shunt - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000149.htm

# Ventriculoperitoneal shunt - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your child has hydrocephalus and needed a shunt placed to drain excess fluid
and relieve pressure in the brain. This buildup of brain and spinal cord fluid
(cerebrospinal fluid, or CSF) and pressure causes the brain tissue to press
(become compressed) against the skull. Too much pressure or pressure that is
present too long can damage the brain tissue.

After your child goes home, follow the health care provider's instructions on
how to care for child. Use the information below as a reminder.

## When Your Child Was in the Hospital

Your child had a cut (incision) behind the ear and a small hole drilled
through the skull. A small cut was also made in the belly. A valve was placed
underneath the skin behind the ear. One tube (catheter) was placed into the
brain to bring the fluid to the valve. Another tube was connected to the valve
and threaded underneath the skin down into your child's belly or elsewhere
like around the lung or in the heart.

## What to Expect at Home

Any stitches or staples that you can see will be taken out in about 7 to 14
days.

All parts of the shunt are underneath the skin. At first, the area at the top
of the shunt may be raised up underneath the skin. As the swelling goes away
and your child's hair grows back, there will be a small raised area about the
size of a quarter that is usually not noticeable.

## Self-care

DO NOT shower or shampoo your child's head until the stitches and staples have
been taken out. Give your child a sponge bath instead. The wound should not
soak in water until the skin is completely healed.

DO NOT push on the part of the shunt that you can feel or see underneath your
child's skin behind the ear.

Your child should be able to eat normal foods after going home, unless the
provider tells you otherwise.

Your child should be able to do most activities:

      * If you have a baby, handle your baby the way you would normally. It is OK to bounce your baby.
      * Older children can do most regular activities. Talk with your provider about contact sports.
      * Most of the time, your child may sleep in any position. But, check this with your provider as each child is different.

Your child may have some pain. Children under 4 years old may take
acetaminophen (Tylenol). Children age 4 and older may be prescribed stronger
pain medicines, if needed. Follow your provider's instructions or instructions
on the medicine container, about how much medicine to give your child.

## When to Call the Doctor

The major problems to watch for are an infected shunt and a blocked shunt.

Call your child's provider if your child has:

      * Confusion or seems less aware
      * Fever of 101Â°F (38.3Â°C) or higher
      * Pain in the belly that does not go away
      * Stiff neck or headache
      * No appetite or is not eating well
      * Veins on the head or scalp that look larger than they used to
      * Problems in school
      * Poor development or has lost a developmental skill previously attained
      * Become more cranky or irritable
      * Redness, swelling, bleeding, or increased discharge from the incision
      * Vomiting that does not go away
      * Sleep problems or is more sleepy than usual
      * High-pitched cry
      * Been looking more pale
      * A head that is growing larger
      * Bulging or tenderness in the soft spot at the top of the head
      * Swelling around the valve or around the tube going from the valve to their belly
      * A seizure 

## Alternative Names

Shunt - ventriculoperitoneal - discharge; VP shunt - discharge; Shunt revision
- discharge; Hydrocephalus shunt placement - discharge

## References

Badhiwala JH, Kulkarni AV. Ventricular shunting procedures. In: Winn HR, ed.
_Youmans and Winn Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 201.

Rosenberg GA. Brain edema and disorders of cerebrospinal fluid circulation.
In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology
in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 88.

## Read More

      * Encephalitis
      * Hydrocephalus
      * Increased intracranial pressure
      * Meningitis
      * Myelomeningocele
      * Normal pressure hydrocephalus
      * Ventriculoperitoneal shunting

## Patient Instructions

      * Surgical wound care - open

## Review Date 7/9/2018

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery,
Holston Valley Medical Center, TN; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at
UCSF, San Francisco, CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Hydrocephalus

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

