Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001571.htm    
                                Description: Hydrocephalus is a buildup of fluid inside the skull that leads to brain swelling.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hydrocephalus

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001571.htm

# Hydrocephalus

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hydrocephalus is a buildup of fluid inside the skull that leads to brain
swelling.

Hydrocephalus means "water on the brain."

## Causes

Hydrocephalus is due to a problem with the flow of the fluid that surrounds
the brain. This fluid is called the cerebrospinal fluid, or CSF. The fluid
surrounds the brain and spinal cord and helps cushion the brain.

CSF normally moves through the brain and the spinal cord and is soaked into
the bloodstream. CSF levels in the brain can rise if:

      * The flow of CSF is blocked.
      * The fluid does not get properly absorbed into the blood.
      * The brain makes too much of the fluid. 

Too much CSF puts pressure on the brain. This pushes the brain up against the
skull and damages brain tissue.

Hydrocephalus may begin while the baby is growing in the womb. It is common in
babies who have a myelomeningocele, a birth defect in which the spinal column
does not close properly.

Hydrocephalus may also be due to:

      * Genetic defects
      * Certain infections during pregnancy 

In young children, hydrocephalus may be due to:

      * Infections that affect the central nervous system (such as meningitis or encephalitis), especially in infants
      * Bleeding in the brain during or soon after delivery (especially in premature babies)
      * Injury before, during, or after childbirth, including subarachnoid hemorrhage
      * Tumors of the central nervous system, including the brain or spinal cord
      * Injury or trauma

Hydrocephalus most often occurs in children. Another type, called normal
pressure hydrocephalus, may occur in adults and older people.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of hydrocephalus depend on:

      * Age
      * Amount of brain damage
      * What is causing the buildup of CSF fluid 

In infants, hydrocephalus causes the fontanelle (soft spot) to bulge and the
head to be larger than expected. Early symptoms may also include:

      * Eyes that appear to gaze downward
      * Irritability
      * Seizures
      * Separated sutures
      * Sleepiness
      * Vomiting 

Symptoms that may occur in older children can include:

      * Brief, shrill, high-pitched cry
      * Changes in personality, memory, or the ability to reason or think
      * Changes in facial appearance and eye spacing
      * Crossed eyes or uncontrolled eye movements
      * Difficulty feeding
      * Excessive sleepiness
      * Headache
      * Irritability, poor temper control
      * Loss of bladder control (urinary incontinence)
      * Loss of coordination and trouble walking
      * Muscle spasticity (spasm)
      * Slow growth (child 0 to 5 years)
      * Slow or restricted movement
      * Vomiting

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine the baby. This may show:

      * Stretched or swollen veins on the baby's scalp
      * Abnormal sounds when the provider taps lightly on the skull, suggesting a problem with the skull bones
      * All or part of the head may be larger than normal, often the front part
      * Eyes that look "sunken in"
      * White part of the eye appears over the colored area, making it look like a "setting sun"
      * Reflexes may be normal 

Repeated head circumference measurements over time may show that the head is
getting bigger.

A head CT scan is one of the best tests for identifying hydrocephalus. Other
tests that may be done include:

      * Arteriography
      * Brain scan using radioisotopes
      * Cranial ultrasound (an ultrasound of the brain)
      * Lumbar puncture and examination of the cerebrospinal fluid (rarely done)
      * Skull x-rays

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to reduce or prevent brain damage by improving the
flow of CSF.

Surgery may be done to remove a blockage, if possible.

If not, a flexible tube called a shunt may be placed in the brain to reroute
the flow of CSF. The shunt sends CSF to another part of the body, such as the
belly area, where it can be absorbed.

Other treatments may include:

      * Antibiotics if there are signs of infection. Severe infections may require the shunt to be removed.
      * A procedure called endoscopic third ventriculostomy (ETV), which relieves pressure without replacing the shunt.
      * Removing or burning away (cauterizing) the parts of the brain that produce CSF. 

The child will need regular check-ups to make sure there are no further
problems. Tests will be done regularly to check the child's development, and
to look for intellectual, neurological, or physical problems.

Visiting nurses, social services, support groups, and local agencies can
provide emotional support and help with the care of a child with hydrocephalus
who has serious brain damage.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Without treatment, up to 6 in 10 people with hydrocephalus will die. Those who
survive will have different amounts of intellectual, physical, and
neurological disabilities.

The outlook depends on the cause. Hydrocephalus that is not due to an
infection has the best outlook. People with hydrocephalus caused by tumors
will often do very poorly.

Most children with hydrocephalus who survive for 1 year will have a fairly
normal lifespan.

## Possible Complications

The shunt may become blocked. Symptoms of such a blockage include headache and
vomiting. Surgeons may be able to help the shunt open without having to
replace it.

There may be other problems with the shunt, such as kinking, tube separation,
or infection in the area of the shunt.

Other complications may include:

      * Complications of surgery
      * Infections such as meningitis or encephalitis
      * Intellectual impairment
      * Nerve damage (decrease in movement, sensation, function)
      * Physical disabilities

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Seek medical care right away if your child has any symptoms of this disorder.
Go to the emergency room or call 911 if emergency symptoms occur, such as:

      * Breathing problems 
      * Extreme drowsiness or sleepiness 
      * Feeding difficulties 
      * Fever 
      * High-pitched cry 
      * No pulse (heartbeat) 
      * Seizures 
      * Severe headache 
      * Stiff neck 
      * Vomiting 

You should also call your provider if:

      * The child has been diagnosed with hydrocephalus and the condition gets worse.
      * You are unable to care for the child at home. 

## Prevention

Protect the head of an infant or child from injury. Prompt treatment of
infections and other disorders associated with hydrocephalus may reduce the
risk of developing the disorder.

## Alternative Names

Water on the brain

## Patient Instructions

      * Ventriculoperitoneal shunt - discharge

## Images

      * ![Skull of a newborn](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1127t.jpg)Skull of a newborn

## References

Kinsman SL, Johnston MV. Congenital anomalies of the central nervous system.
In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 591.

Rosenberg GA. Brain edema and disorders of cerebrospinal fluid circulation.
In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology
in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 88.

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hydrocephalus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hydrocephalus_thumb.jpg)Hydrocephalus
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

