Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000752.htm    
                                Description: Hydrocephalus is a buildup of spinal fluid inside the fluid chambers of the brain. Hydrocephalus means &quot;water on the brain.&quot;    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Normal pressure hydrocephalus

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000752.htm

# Normal pressure hydrocephalus

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hydrocephalus is a buildup of spinal fluid inside the fluid chambers of the
brain. Hydrocephalus means "water on the brain."

Normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) is a rise in the amount of cerebrospinal
fluid (CSF) in the brain that affects brain function. However, the pressure of
the fluid is usually normal.

## Causes

There is no known cause for NPH. But the chance of developing NPH is high in
someone who has had any of the following:

      * Bleeding from a blood vessel or aneurysm in the brain (subarachnoid hemorrhage)
      * Certain head injuries
      * Meningitis or similar infections
      * Surgery on the brain (craniotomy)

As CSF builds up in the brain, the fluid-filled chambers (ventricles) of the
brain swell. This causes pressure on brain tissue. This can damage or destroy
parts of the brain.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of NPH often begin slowly. There are three main symptoms of NPH:

      * Changes in the way a person walks: difficulty when beginning to walk (gait apraxia),Â feel as if they are stuck to the ground (magnetic gait)
      * Slowing of mental function: forgetfulness, difficulty paying attention, apathy or no mood
      * Problems controlling urine (urinary incontinence), and sometimes controlling stools (bowel incontinence) 

Diagnosis of NPH can be made if any of the above symptoms occur and NPH is
suspected and testing is done.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical examination and ask about the
symptoms. If you have NPH, the provider will likely find that your walking
(gait) is not normal. You may also have memory problems.

Tests that may be done include:

      * Lumbar puncture (spinal tap) with careful testing of walking before and right after the spinal tap
      * Head CT scan or MRI of the head

## Treatment

Treatment for NPH is usually surgery to place a tube called a shunt that
routes the excess CSF out of the brain ventricles. This is called a
ventriculoperitoneal shunt.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Without treatment, symptoms often get worse and could lead to death.

Surgery improves symptoms in some people. Those with mild symptoms have the
best outcome. Walking is the symptom most likely to improve.

## Possible Complications

Problems that may result from NPH or its treatment include:

      * Complications of surgery (infection, bleeding, shunt that does not work well)
      * Loss of brain function (dementia) that becomes worse over time
      * Injury from falls
      * Shortened life span 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You or a loved one is having increasing problems with memory, walking, or urine incontinence.
      * A person with NPH worsens to the point where you are unable to care for the person yourself. 

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if a
sudden change in mental status occurs. This may mean that another disorder has
developed.

## Alternative Names

Hydrocephalus - occult; Hydrocephalus - idiopathic; Hydrocephalus - adult;
Hydrocephalus - communicating; Dementia - hydrocephalus; NPH

## Patient Instructions

      * Ventriculoperitoneal shunt - discharge

## Images

      * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system
      * ![Ventricles of the brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9567t.jpg)Ventricles of the brain

## References

Rosenberg GA. Brain edema and disorders of cerebrospinal fluid circulation.
In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology
in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 88.

Williams MA, Malm J. Diagnosis and treatment of idiopathic normal pressure
hydrocephalus. _Continuum (Minneap Minn)_. 2016; 22(2 Dementia):579-599.
PMCID: PMC5390935 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5390935.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Joseph V. Campellone, MD, Department of Neurology, Cooper Medical
School at Rowan University, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hydrocephalus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hydrocephalus_thumb.jpg)Hydrocephalus
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

