Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003019.htm    
                                Description: Ventriculoperitoneal shunting is surgery to treat excess cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in the cavities (ventricles) of the brain (hydrocephalus).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ventriculoperitoneal shunting

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003019.htm

# Ventriculoperitoneal shunting

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ventriculoperitoneal shunting is surgery to treat excess cerebrospinal fluid
(CSF) in the cavities (ventricles) of the brain (hydrocephalus).

## Description

This procedure is done in the operating room under general anesthesia. It
takes about 1 1/2 hours. A tube (catheter) is passed from the cavities of the
head to the abdomen to get rid of the excess cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). A
pressure valve and an anti-syphon device ensure that just the right amount of
fluid is drained.

The procedure is done as follows:

      * An area of hair on the head is shaved. This may be behind the ear or on the top or back of the head.
      * The surgeon makes a skin incision behind the ear. Another small surgical cut is made in the belly.
      * A small hole is drilled in the skull. One end of the catheter is passed into a ventricle of the brain. This can be done with or without a computer as a guide. It can also be done with an endoscope that allows the surgeon to see inside the ventricle.
      * A second catheter is placed under the skin behind the ear. It is sent down the neck and chest, and usually into the belly area. Sometimes, it stops at the chest area. In the belly, the catheter is often placed using an endoscope. The doctor may also make a few more small cuts, for instance in the neck or near the collarbone, to help pass the catheter under the skin.
      * A valve is placed underneath the skin, usually behind the ear. The valve is connected to both catheters. When extra pressure builds up around the brain, the valve opens, and excess fluid drains through the catheter into the belly or chest area. This helps lower intracranial pressure. A reservoir on the valve allows for priming (pumping) of the valve and for collecting the CSF if needed.
      * The person is taken to a recovery area and then moved to a hospital room. 

## Why the Procedure is Performed

This surgery is done when there is too much cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in the
brain and spinal cord. This is called hydrocephalus. It causes higher than
normal pressure on the brain. It can cause brain damage.

Children may be born with hydrocephalus. It can occur with other birth defects
of the spinal column or brain. Hydrocephalus can also occur in older adults.

Shunt surgery should be done as soon as hydrocephalus is diagnosed.
Alternative surgeries may be proposed. Your doctor can tell you more about
these options.

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general are:

      * Reactions to medicines or breathing problems
      * Bleeding, blood clots, or infection 

Risks for ventriculoperitoneal shunt placement are:

      * Blood clot or bleeding in the brain
      * Brain swelling
      * Hole in the intestines (bowel perforation), which can occur later after surgery
      * Leakage of CSF fluid under the skin
      * Infection of the shunt, brain, or in the abdomen
      * Damage to brain tissue
      * Seizures 

The shunt may stop working. If this happens, fluid will begin to build up in
the brain again. As a child grows, the shunt may need to be repositioned.

## Before the Procedure

If the procedure is not an emergency (it is planned surgery):

      * Tell the health care provider what medicines, supplements, vitamins, or herbs the person takes.
      * Take any medicine the provider said to take with a small sip of water. 

Ask the provider about limiting eating and drinking before the surgery.

Follow any other instructions about preparing at home. This may include
bathing with a special soap.

## After the Procedure

The person may need to lie flat for 24 hours the first time a shunt is placed.

How long the hospital stay is depends on the reason the shunt is needed. The
health care team will closely monitor the person. IV fluids, antibiotics, and
pain medicines will be given if needed.

Follow the provider's instructions about how to take care of the shunt at
home. This may include taking medicine to prevent infection of the shunt.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Shunt placement is usually successful in reducing pressure in the brain. But
if hydrocephalus is related to other conditions, such as spina bifida, brain
tumor, meningitis, encephalitis, or hemorrhage, these conditions could affect
the prognosis. How severe hydrocephalus is before surgery also affects the
outcome.

## Alternative Names

Shunt - ventriculoperitoneal; VP shunt; Shunt revision

## Patient Instructions

      * Surgical wound care - open
      * Ventriculoperitoneal shunt - discharge

## Images

      * ![Ventricles of the brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9567t.jpg)Ventricles of the brain
      * ![Craniotomy for cerebral shunt](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9569t.jpg)Craniotomy for cerebral shunt
      * ![Ventriculoperitoneal shunt - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/12723t.jpg)Ventriculoperitoneal shunt - series

## References

Badhiwala JH, Kulkarni AV. Ventricular shunting procedures. In: Winn HR, ed.
_Youmans and Winn Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 201.

Rosenberg GA. Brain edema and disorders of cerebrospinal fluid circulation.
In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology
in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 88.

## Review Date 11/22/2017

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery at
Providence Medical Center, Medford OR; Department of Surgery at Ashland
Community Hospital, Ashland OR; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at UCSF,
San Francisco, CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hydrocephalus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hydrocephalus_thumb.jpg)Hydrocephalus
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

