Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001456.htm    
                                Description: Hereditary angioedema is a rare but serious problem with the immune system. The problem is passed down through families. It causes swelling, particularly of the face and airways, and abdominal cramping.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hereditary angioedema

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001456.htm

# Hereditary angioedema

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hereditary angioedema is a rare but serious problem with the immune system.
The problem is passed down through families. It causes swelling, particularly
of the face and airways, and abdominal cramping.

## Causes

Angioedema is swelling that is similar to hives, but the swelling is under the
skin instead of on the surface.

Hereditary angioedema (HAE) is caused by a low level or improper function of a
protein called the C1 inhibitor. With HAE, the blood vessels are affected. An
HAE attack can result in rapid swelling of the hands, feet, limbs, face,
intestinal tract, larynx (voicebox), or trachea (windpipe).

Attacks of swelling can become more severe in late childhood and adolescence.

There is usually a family history of the condition. But relatives may be
unaware of previous cases, which may have been reported as an unexpected,
sudden, and premature death of a parent, aunt, uncle, or grandparent.

Dental procedures, sickness (including colds and the flu), and surgery may
trigger HAE attacks.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Airway blockage \-- involves throat swelling and sudden hoarseness
      * Repeat episodes of abdominal cramping without obvious cause
      * Swelling in the hands, arms, legs, lips, eyes, tongue, throat, or genitals
      * Swelling of the intestines -- can be severe and lead to abdominal cramping, vomiting, dehydration, diarrhea, pain, and occasionally shock
      * A non-itchy, red rash

## Exams and Tests

Blood tests (ideally done during an episode):

      * C1 inhibitor function
      * C1 inhibitor level
      * Complement component 4

## Treatment

Antihistamines and other treatments used for angioedema do not work well for
HAE. Epinephrine should be used in life-threatening reactions. There are a
number of newerÂ FDA-approved treatments for HAE.

Some are given through a vein (IV) and can be used at home. Others are given
as an injection under the skin by the patient.

      * Choice of which agent may be based on the age of the patient and where the symptoms occur.
      * Names of new drugs for treatment of HAE include Cinryze, Berinert, Ruconest, Kalbitor, and Firazyr.

Before these newer medicines became available, androgen medicines, such as
danazol, were use to reduce the frequency and severity of attacks. These
medicines help the body make more C1 inhibitor. However, many women have
serious side effects from these medicines. They can also not be used in
children.

Once an attack occurs, treatment includes pain relief and fluids given through
a vein by an intravenous (IV) line.

 _Helicobacter pylori_ , a type of bacteria found in the stomach, can trigger
abdominal attacks. Antibiotics to treat the bacteria help decrease abdominal
attacks.

## Support Groups

The following resources can provide more information on HAE:

      * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/hereditary-angioedema
      * NIH/NLM Genetics Home Reference -- ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/hereditary-angioedema
      * US Hereditary Angioedema Association -- www.haea.orgÂ 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

HAE can be life threatening and treatment options are limited. How well a
person does depends on the specific symptoms.

## Possible Complications

Swelling of the airways may be deadly.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call or visit your health care provider if you are considering having children
and have a family history of this condition. Also call if you have symptoms of
HAE.

Swelling of the airway is a life-threatening emergency. If you are having
difficulty breathing due to swelling, seek immediate medical attention.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling may be helpful for prospective parents with a family
history of HAE.

## Alternative Names

Quincke disease; HAE - Hereditary angioedema; Kallikrein inhibitor - HAE;
Bradykinin receptor antagonist - HAE; C1-inhibitors - HAE; Hives - HAE

## Images

      * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Dreskin SC. Urticaria and angioedema. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 252.

Longhurst H, Cicardi M, Craig T, et al; COMPACT investigators. Prevention of
hereditary angioedema attacks with a subcutaneous C1 inhibitor. _N Engl J
Med_. 2017;376(12):1131-1140. PMID: 28328347
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28328347.

Zuraw BL, Christiansen SC. Hereditary angioedema and bradykinin-mediated
angioedema. In: Adkinson NF, Bochner BS, Burks AW, eds. _Middleton's Allergy:
Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 37.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Stuart I. Henochowicz, MD, FACP, Associate Clinical Professor of
Medicine, Division of Allergy, Immunology, and Rheumatology, Georgetown
University Medical School, Washington, DC. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD,
MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Vascular
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VascularDiseases_thumb.jpg)Vascular
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

