Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001123.htm    
                                Description: The aortic arch is the top part of the main artery carrying blood away from the heart. Aortic arch syndrome refers to a group of signs and symptoms associated with structural problems in the arteries that    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aortic arch syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001123.htm

# Aortic arch syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The aortic arch is the top part of the main artery carrying blood away from
the heart. Aortic arch syndrome refers to a group of signs and symptoms
associated with structural problems in the arteries that branch off the aortic
arch.

![Heartbeat](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200083t.gif)Watch this
video about:Heartbeat

## Causes

Aortic arch syndrome problems can be due to trauma, blood clots, or
malformations that develop before birth. These defects result in abnormal
blood flow to the head, neck, or arms.

In children, there are many types of aortic arch syndromes, including:

      * Congenital absence of a branch of the aorta
      * Isolation of the subclavian arteries
      * Vascular rings

An inflammatory disease called Takayasu syndrome may result in narrowing
(stenosis) of the vessels of the aortic arch. This typically occurs in women
and girls. This disease is seen more often in people of Asian descent.

![Vascular ring](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/22701.jpg)

## Symptoms

Symptoms vary according to which artery or other structure that has been
affected. Symptoms may include:

      * Blood pressure changes
      * Breathing problems
      * Dizziness, blurred vision, weakness, and other brain and nervous system (neurological) changes
      * Numbness of an arm
      * Reduced pulse
      * Swallowing problems
      * Transient ischemic attacks (TIA)

## Treatment

Surgery is most often needed to treat the underlying cause of aortic arch
syndrome.

## Alternative Names

Subclavian artery occlusive syndrome; Carotid artery occlusion syndrome;
Subclavian steal syndrome; Vertebral-basilar artery occlusive syndrome;
Takayasu disease; Pulseless disease

## Images

      * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
      * ![Vascular ring](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22701t.jpg)Vascular ring

## References

Braverman AC, Schermerhorn M. Diseases of the aorta. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2018:chap 63.

Lederle FA. Diseases of the aorta. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 78.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Vascular
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VascularDiseases_thumb.jpg)Vascular
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

