Link: https://medlineplus.gov/clostridiumdifficileinfections.html    
                                Description: C. difficile infection or C. diff is a bacterium that causes diarrhea. Risk factors include prolonged use of antibiotics or being elderly. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Clostridium Difficile Infections

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/clostridiumdifficileinfections.html

#  Clostridium Difficile Infections

Also called: C. diff. infections, Clostridioides difficile infections,
Clostridium enterocolitis, pseudomembranous colitis

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is Clostridium difficile (C. difficile)?

Clostridium difficile (C. difficile) is a bacterium that can cause diarrhea
and more serious intestinal conditions such as colitis. C. diff causes close
to half a million illnesses each year.

### What causes Clostridium difficile (C. difficile)?

C. diff bacteria are commonly found in the environment, but people usually
only get C. diff infections when they are taking antibiotics. That's because
antibiotics not only wipe out bad germs, they also kill the good germs that
protect your body against infections. The effect of antibiotics can last as
long as several months. If you come in contact with C. diff germs during this
time, you can get sick. You are more likely to get C. diff if you take
antibiotics for more than a week.

C. diff spreads when people touch food, surfaces, or objects that are
contaminated with feces (poop) from a person who has C. diff.

### Who is at risk for Clostridium difficile (C. difficile)?

You are at more likely to get C. diff if you

    * Are taking antibiotics
    * Are 65 or older
    * Recently stayed in a hospital or nursing home
    * Have a weakened immune system
    * Have had a previous infection with C. diff or were exposed to it

### What are the symptoms of Clostridium difficile (C. difficile)?

The symptoms of C. diff include

    * Diarrhea (loose, watery stools) or frequent bowel movements for several days
    * Fever
    * Stomach tenderness or pain
    * Loss of appetite
    * Nausea

Severe diarrhea causes you to lose a lot of fluids. This can put you at risk
for dehydration.

### How is Clostridium difficile (C. difficile) diagnosed?

If you have been taking antibiotics recently and have symptoms of C. diff, you
should see your health care provider. Your provider will ask about your
symptoms and do a lab test of your stool. In some cases, you might also need
an imaging test to check for complications.

### What are the treatments for Clostridium difficile (C. difficile)?

Certain antibiotics can treat C. diff. If you were already taking a different
antibiotic when you got C. diff, you provider may ask you to stop taking that
one.

If you have a severe case, you may need to stay in the hospital. If you have
very severe pain or serious complications, you may need surgery to remove the
diseased part of your colon.

About 1 in 5 people who have had get C. diff will get it again. It could be
that your original infection came back or that you have new infection. Contact
your health care provider if your symptoms come back.

### Can Clostridium difficile (C. difficile) be prevented?

There are steps you can take to try to prevent getting or spreading C. diff:

    * Wash your hands with soap and water after you use the bathroom and before you eat
    * If you have diarrhea, clean the bathroom that you used before anyone else uses it. Use bleach mixed with water or another disinfectant to clean the toilet seat, handle, and lid.

Health care providers can also help prevent C. diff by taking infection
control precautions and improving how they prescribe antibiotics.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Start Here

    * Clostridioides difficile (C. diff) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Clostridium difficile Infection (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * C. Diff Testing ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * C. difficile Infection (American College of Gastroenterology)
    * Probiotics: In Depth ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)

## Specifics

    * Antibiotic-Associated Diarrhea (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Pseudomembranous colitis (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Clostridium difficile Infections ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Enterocolitis, Pseudomembranous ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Closing in on C. difficile infection.
    * Article: Clostridioides difficile: diagnosis and treatments.
    * Article: Clostridium difficile colitis: CT findings and differential diagnosis.
    * Clostridium Difficile Infections -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
    * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * Clostridium difficile (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish
    * Stool Test: C. Difficile Toxin (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Fecal microbiota transplant (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Pseudomembranous colitis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Stool C. difficile toxin (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Clostridium Difficile
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ClostridiumDifficileInfections.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Fecal microbiota transplant
    * Pseudomembranous colitis
    * Stool C. difficile toxin

## NIH MedlinePlus Magazine

    * Battling C. Difficile: Don't Delay

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 24 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

