Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001097.htm    
                                Description: SVC obstruction is a narrowing or blockage of the superior vena cava (SVC), which is the second largest vein in the human body. The superior vena cava moves blood from the upper half of the body to the    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

SVC obstruction

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001097.htm

# SVC obstruction

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

SVC obstruction is a narrowing or blockage of the superior vena cava (SVC),
which is the second largest vein in the human body. The superior vena cava
moves blood from the upper half of the body to the heart.

## Causes

SVC obstruction is a rare condition.

It is most often caused by cancer or a tumor in the mediastinum (the area of
the chest under the breastbone and between the lungs).

Other types of cancer that can lead to this condition include:

      * Breast cancer
      * Lymphoma
      * Metastatic lung cancer (lung cancer that spreads)
      * Testicular cancer
      * Thyroid cancer
      * Thymus tumor 

SVC obstruction can also be caused by noncancerous conditions that cause
scarring. These conditions include:

      * Histoplasmosis (a type of fungal infection)
      * Inflammation of a vein (thrombophlebitis)
      * Lung infections (such as tuberculosis) 

Other causes of SVC obstruction include:

      * Aortic aneurysm (a widening of the artery that leaves the heart)
      * Blood clots in the SVC
      * Constrictive pericarditis (tightening of the thin lining of the heart)
      * Effects of radiation therapy for certain medical conditions
      * Enlargement of the thyroid gland (goiter) 

Catheters placed in the large veins of the upper arm and neck may cause blood
clots in the SVC.

## Symptoms

Symptoms occur when something blocks the blood flowing back to the heart.
Symptoms may begin suddenly or gradually, and may worsen when you bend over or
lie down.

Early signs include:

      * Swelling around the eye
      * Swelling of the face
      * Swelling of the whites of the eyes 

The swelling will most likely be worse in the early morning hours and go away
by mid-morning.

The most common symptoms are shortness of breath (dyspnea) and swelling of the
face, neck, trunk, and arms.

Other possible symptoms include:

      * Decreased alertness
      * Dizziness, fainting
      * Headache
      * Reddish face or cheeks
      * Reddish palms
      * Reddish mucous membranes (inside the nose, mouth, and other places)
      * Redness changing to blueness later
      * Sensation of head or ear fullness
      * Vision changes 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam, which may show enlarged
veins of the face, neck, and upper chest. Blood pressure is often high in the
arms and low in the legs.

If lung cancer is suspected, a bronchoscopy may be done. During this
procedure, a camera is used to view inside the airways and lungs.

Blockage of the SVC may be visible on:

      * Chest x-ray
      * CT scan of the chest or MRI of chest
      * Coronary angiography (a heart blood vessel study)
      * Doppler ultrasound (sound wave test of the blood vessels)
      * Radionuclide ventriculography (nuclear study of heart motion) 

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to relieve the blockage.

Diuretics (water pills) or steroids (anti-inflammtory drugs) may be used to
temporarily relieve swelling.

Other treatment options may include radiation or chemotherapy to shrink the
tumor, or surgery to remove the tumors. Surgery to bypass the obstruction is
rarely performed. Placement of a stent (tube placed inside a blood vessel) to
open up the SVC may be performed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome varies, depending on the cause and the amount of blockage.

SVC obstruction caused by a tumor is a sign that the tumor has spread, and it
indicates a poorer long-term outlook.

## Possible Complications

The throat could become blocked, which can block the airways.

Increased pressure may develop in the brain, leading to changed levels of
consciousness, nausea, vomiting, or vision changes.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of SVC obstruction. Complications
are serious and can sometimes be fatal.

## Prevention

Prompt treatment of other medical disorders may reduce the risk of developing
SVC obstruction.

## Alternative Names

Superior vena cava obstruction; Superior vena cava syndrome

## Images

      * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle

## References

Gupta A, Kim N, Kalva S, Reznik S, Johnson DH. Superior vena cava syndrome.
In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Kastan MB, Doroshow JH, Tepper JE, eds.
_Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap
53.

Kinlay S, Bhatt DL. Treatment of noncoronary obstructive vascular disease. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 66.

## Review Date 1/12/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Vascular
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VascularDiseases_thumb.jpg)Vascular
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

