Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003327.htm    
                                Description: An arteriogram is an imaging test that uses x-rays and a special dye to see inside the arteries. It can be used to view arteries in the heart, brain, kidney, and other parts of the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Arteriogram

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003327.htm

# Arteriogram

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An arteriogram is an imaging test that uses x-rays and a special dye to see
inside the arteries. It can be used to view arteries in the heart, brain,
kidney, and other parts of the body.

Related tests include:

      * Aortic angiography (chest or abdomen)
      * Cerebral angiography (brain)
      * Coronary angiography (heart)
      * Extremity angiography (legs or arms)
      * Fluorescein angiography (eyes)
      * Pulmonary angiography (lungs)
      * Renal arteriography (kidneys)
      * Mesenteric angiography (colon or small bowel)
      * Pelvic angiography (pelvis) 

## How the Test is Performed

The test is done in a medical facility designed to perform this test. You will
lie on an x-ray table. Local anesthetic is used to numb the area where the dye
is injected. Most of the time, an artery in the groin will be used. In some
cases, an artery in your wrist may be used.

Next, a flexible tube called a catheter (which is the width of the tip of a
pen) is inserted into the groin and moved through the artery until it reaches
the intended area of the body. The exact procedure depends on the part of the
body being examined.

You will not feel the catheter inside of you.

You may ask for a calming medicine (sedative) if you are anxious about the
test.

For most tests:

      * A dye (contrast) is injected into an artery.
      * X-rays are taken to see how the dye flows through your bloodstream.

## How to Prepare for the Test

How you should prepare depends on the part of the body being examined. Your
health care provider may tell you to stop taking certain drugs that could
affect the test, or blood thinning medicines. DO NOT stop taking any medicine
without first talking to your provider. In most cases, you may not be able to
eat or drink anything for a few hours before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

You may have some discomfort from a needle stick. You may feel symptoms such
as flushing in the face or other parts of the body when the dye is injected.
The exact symptoms will depend on the part of the body being examined.

If you had an injection in your groin area, you will most often be asked to
lie flat on your back for a few hours after the test. This is to help avoid
bleeding. Lying flat may be uncomfortable for some people.

## Why the Test is Performed

An arteriogram is done to see how blood moves through the arteries. It is also
used to check for blocked or damaged arteries. It can be used to visualize
tumors or find a source of bleeding. Usually, an arteriogram is performed at
the same time as a treatment. If no treatment is planned, in many areas of the
body it has been replaced with CT or MR arteriography.

![Cardiac arteriogram](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/9077.jpg)

## Alternative Names

Angiogram; Angiography

## Images

      * ![Cardiac arteriogram](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9077t.jpg)Cardiac arteriogram

## References

Azarbal AF, Mclafferty RB. Arteriography. In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds.
_Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy._ 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 25.

Feinstein E, Olson JL, Mandava N. Camera-based ancillary retinal testing:
autofluorescence, fluorescein, and indocyanine green angiography. In: Yanoff
M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology._ 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 6.6.

Harisinghani MG. Chen JW, Weissleder R. Vascular imaging. In: Harisinghani MG.
Chen JW, Weissleder R, eds. _Primer of Diagnostic Imaging._ 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 8.

Mondschein JI, Solomon JA. Peripheral arterial disease diagnosis and
intervention. In: Torigian DA, Ramchandani P, eds. _Radiology Secrets Plus._
4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 70.

## Review Date 1/1/2020

Updated by: Jason Levy, MD, Northside Radiology Associates, Atlanta, GA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Atherosclerosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Atherosclerosis2_thumb.jpg)Atherosclerosis
_Read more_

![Peripheral Arterial
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeripheralArterialDisease_thumb.jpg)Peripheral
Arterial Disease _Read more_

![Vascular
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VascularDiseases_thumb.jpg)Vascular
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

