Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000725.htm    
                                Description: Arterial insufficiency is any condition that slows or stops the flow of blood through your arteries. Arteries are blood vessels that carry blood from the heart to other places in your body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Arterial insufficiency

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000725.htm

# Arterial insufficiency

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Arterial insufficiency is any condition that slows or stops the flow of blood
through your arteries. Arteries are blood vessels that carry blood from the
heart to other places in your body.

## Causes

One of the most common causes of arterial insufficiency is atherosclerosis or
"hardening of the arteries." Fatty material (called plaque) builds up on the
walls of your arteries. This causes them to become narrow and stiff. As a
result, it is hard for blood to flow through your arteries.

![Developmental process of
atherosclerosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18020.jpg)

Blood flow may be suddenly stopped due to a blood clot. Clots can form on the
plaque or travel from another place in the heart or artery (also called
embolus).

## Symptoms

Symptoms depend on where your arteries become narrowed:

      * If it affects your heart arteries, you may have chest pain or a heart attack.
      * If it affects your brain arteries, you may have a stroke.
      * If it affects the arteries that bring blood to your legs, you may have frequent leg cramping when you walk.
      * If it affects the arteries in your belly area, you may have pain after you eat.

## Images

      * ![Arteries of the brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9441t.jpg)Arteries of the brain
      * ![Developmental process of atherosclerosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18020t.jpg)Developmental process of atherosclerosis

## References

Hansson GK, Hamsten A. Atherosclerosis, thrombosis, and vascular biology. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 70.

Libby P. The vascular biology of atherosclerosis. In: Mann DL, Zipes DP, Libby
P, Bonow RO, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of
Cardiovascular Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 41.

## Review Date 11/20/2017

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Atherosclerosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Atherosclerosis2_thumb.jpg)Atherosclerosis
_Read more_

![Vascular
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VascularDiseases_thumb.jpg)Vascular
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

