Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001095.htm    
                                Description: Spider angioma is an abnormal collection of blood vessels near the surface of the skin.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Spider angioma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001095.htm

# Spider angioma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Spider angioma is an abnormal collection of blood vessels near the surface of
the skin.

## Causes

Spider angiomas are very common. They often occur in pregnant women and in
people with liver disease. They can appear in both children and adults. They
get their name from an appearance similar to a red spider.

They appear most often on the face, neck, upper part of the trunk, arms, and
fingers.

## Symptoms

The main symptom is a blood vessel spot that:

      * May have a red dot in the center
      * Has reddish extensions that reach out from the center
      * Disappears when pressed on and comes back when pressure is released 

In rare cases, bleeding occurs in a spider angioma.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine the spider angioma on your skin. You may
be asked if you have any other symptoms.

Most of the time, you do not need tests to diagnose the condition. But
sometimes, a skin biopsy is needed to confirm the diagnosis. Blood tests may
be done if a liver problem is suspected.

## Treatment

Usually, spider angiomas do not need treatment, but burning (electrocautery)
or laser treatment is sometimes done.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Spider angiomas in children may disappear after puberty, and often disappear
after a woman gives birth. Untreated, spider angiomas tend to last in adults.

Treatment is often successful.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Let your provider know if you have a new spider angioma so that other related
medical conditions can be ruled out.

## Alternative Names

Nevus araneus; Spider telangiectasia; Vascular spider; Spider nevus; Arterial
spiders

## Images

      * ![Circulatory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8747t.jpg)Circulatory system

## References

Habif TP. Vascular tumors and malformations. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 23.

Martin KL. Vascular disorders. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 650.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Vascular
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VascularDiseases_thumb.jpg)Vascular
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

