Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001156.htm    
                                Description: Mesenteric artery ischemia occurs when there is a narrowing or blockage of one or more of the three major arteries that supply the small and large intestines. These are called the mesenteric arteries.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mesenteric artery ischemia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001156.htm

# Mesenteric artery ischemia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Mesenteric artery ischemia occurs when there is a narrowing or blockage of one
or more of the three major arteries that supply the small and large
intestines. These are called the mesenteric arteries.

## Causes

The arteries that supply blood to the intestines run directly from the aorta.Â
The aorta is the main artery from the heart.

Hardening of the arteries occurs when fat, cholesterol, and other substances
build up in the walls of arteries. This is more common in smokers and in
people with high blood pressure or high blood cholesterol.

This narrows the blood vessels and reduces blood flow to the intestines. Like
every other part of the body, blood brings oxygen to the intestines. When the
oxygen supply is slowed, symptoms may occur.

The blood supply to the intestines may be suddenly blocked by a blood clot
(embolus). The clots most often come from the heart or aorta. These clots are
more commonly seen in people with abnormal heart rhythm.

## Symptoms

Symptoms caused by gradual hardening of the mesenteric arteries:

      * Abdominal pain after eating
      * Diarrhea 

Symptoms of sudden (acute) mesenteric artery ischemia due to a traveling blood
clot include:

      * Sudden severe abdominal pain
      * Diarrhea
      * Vomiting

## Exams and Tests

When symptoms begin suddenly or become severe, blood tests may show increased
white blood cell count and changes in the blood acid level. There may be
bleeding in the GI tract.

A Doppler ultrasound or CT angiogram scan may show problems with the blood
vessels and the intestine.

A mesenteric angiogram is a test that involves injecting a special dye into
your bloodstream to highlight the arteries of the intestine. Then x-rays are
taken of the area. This can show the location of the blockage in the artery.

## Treatment

When blood supply is blocked to a part of the heart muscle, the muscle will
die. This is called a heart attack. A similar type of injury can occur to any
part of the intestines.

When the blood supply is suddenly cut off by a blood clot, it is an emergency.
Treatment can include medicines to dissolve the blood clots and open up the
arteries.

If you have symptoms due to hardening of the mesenteric arteries, there are
things you can do to control the problem:

      * Stop smoking. Smoking narrows the arteries. This decreases the ability of the blood to carry oxygen and increases the risk of forming clots (thrombi and emboli).
      * Make sure your blood pressure is under control.
      * If you are overweight, reduce your weight.
      * If your cholesterol is high, eat a low-cholesterol and low-fat diet.
      * Monitor your blood sugar level if you have diabetes, and keep it under control.

Surgery may be done if the problem is severe.

      * The blockage is removed and the arteries are reconnected to the aorta. A bypass around the blockage is another procedure. It is usually done with a plastic tube graft.
      * Insertion of a stent. A stent may be used as an alternative to surgery to enlarge the blockage in the artery or to deliver medicine directly to the affected area. This is a new technique and it should only be done by experienced health care providers. The outcome is usually better with surgery.
      * At times, a portion of your intestine will need to be removed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook for chronic mesenteric ischemia is good after a successful
surgery. However, it is important to make lifestyle changes to prevent
hardening of the arteries from getting worse.

People with hardening of the arteries that supply the intestines often have
the same problems in blood vessels that supply the heart, brain, kidneys, or
legs.

People with acute mesenteric ischemia often do poorly because parts of the
intestine may die before surgery can be done. This can be fatal. However, with
prompt diagnosis and treatment, acute mesenteric ischemia can be treated
successfully.

## Possible Complications

Tissue death from lack of blood flow (infarction) in the intestines is the
most serious complication of mesenteric artery ischemia. Surgery may be needed
to remove the dead portion.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

      * Changes in bowel habits
      * Fever
      * Nausea
      * Severe abdominal pain
      * Vomiting

## Prevention

The following lifestyle changes can reduce your risk for narrowing of the
arteries:

      * Get regular exercise.
      * Follow a healthy diet.
      * Get heart rhythm problems treated.
      * Keep your blood cholesterol and blood sugar under control.
      * Quit smoking.

## Alternative Names

Mesenteric vascular disease; Ischemic colitis; Ischemic bowel - mesenteric;
Dead bowel - mesenteric; Dead gut - mesenteric; Atherosclerosis - mesenteric
artery; Hardening of the arteries - mesenteric artery

## References

Brandt LJ, Feuerstadt P. Intestinal ischemia. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 118.

Hauser SC. Vascular diseases of the gastrointestinal tract. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 143.

## Review Date 1/12/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Peritoneal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeritonealDisorders_thumb.jpg)Peritoneal
Disorders _Read more_

![Vascular
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VascularDiseases_thumb.jpg)Vascular
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

