Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007647.htm    
                                Description: A distal splenorenal shunt (DSRS) is a type of surgery done to relieve extra pressure in the portal vein. The portal vein carries blood from your digestive organs to your liver.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Distal splenorenal shunt

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007647.htm

# Distal splenorenal shunt

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A distal splenorenal shunt (DSRS) is a type of surgery done to relieve extra
pressure in the portal vein. The portal vein carries blood from your digestive
organs to your liver.

## Description

During DSRS, the vein from your spleen is removed from the portal vein. The
vein is then attached to the vein to your left kidney. This helps reduce blood
flow through the portal vein.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

The portal vein brings blood from the intestine, spleen, pancreas, and
gallbladder to the liver. When blood flow is blocked, the pressure in this
vein becomes too high. This is called portal hypertension. It often occurs due
to liver damage caused by:

      * Alcohol use
      * Chronic viral hepatitis
      * Blood clots
      * Certain congenital disorders
      * Primary biliary cirrhosis (liver scarring caused by blocked bile ducts)

When blood can't flow normally through the portal vein, it takes another path.
As a result, swollen blood vessels called varices form. They develop thin
walls that can break and bleed.

You may have this surgery if imaging tests such as endoscopy or x-rays show
that you have bleeding varices. DSRS surgery reduces pressure on the varices
and helps control bleeding.

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general are:

      * Allergic reactions to medicines or breathing problems
      * Bleeding, blood clots, or infection

Risks of this surgery include:

      * Buildup of fluid in the belly (ascites)
      * Repeat bleeding from the varices
      * Encephalopathy (loss of brain function because the liver is unable to remove toxins from the blood) 

## Before the Procedure

Before the surgery, you may have certain tests:

      * Angiogram (to view inside the blood vessels)
      * Blood tests
      * Endoscopy

Give your health care provider a list of all the medicines you take including
prescription and over-the-counter, herbs, and supplements. Ask which ones you
need to stop taking before the surgery, and which ones you should take the
morning of the surgery.

Your provider will explain the procedure and tell you when to stop eating and
drinking before the surgery.

## After the Procedure

Expect to stay 7 to 10 days in the hospital after surgery to recover.

When you wake up after the surgery you will have:

      * A tube in your vein (IV) that will carry fluid and medicine into your bloodstream
      * A catheter in your bladder to drain urine
      * An NG tube (nasogastric) that goes through your nose into your stomach to remove gas and fluids
      * A pump with a button you can press when you need pain medicine

As you are able to eat and drink, you will be given liquids and food.

You may have an imaging test to see if the shunt is working.

You may meet with a dietitian, and learn how to eat a low-fat, low-salt diet.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

After DSRS surgery, bleeding is controlled in most people with portal
hypertension. The highest risk of bleeding again is in the first month after
surgery.

## Alternative Names

DSRS; Distal splenorenal shunt procedure; Renal - splenic venous shunt; Warren
shunt; Cirrhosis - distal splenorenal; Liver failure - distal splenorenal;
Portal vein pressure - distal splenorenal shunt

## References

Dudeja V, Fong Y. The liver. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM,
Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 53.

Haugen CE, Cameron AM. Portal hypertension and the role of shunting
procedures. In: Cameron JL, Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:387-389.

## Review Date 9/3/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Vascular
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VascularDiseases_thumb.jpg)Vascular
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

