Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000135.htm    
                                Description: Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) is a rare disorder in which blood vessels become inflamed. This leads to damage in major organs of the body. It was formerly known as Wegener    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Granulomatosis with polyangiitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000135.htm

# Granulomatosis with polyangiitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) is a rare disorder in which blood
vessels become inflamed. This leads to damage in major organs of the body. It
was formerly known as Wegener's granulomatosis.

## Causes

GPA mainly affects blood vessels in the lungs, kidneys, nose, sinuses, and
ears. Other areas may also be affected in some cases. The disease can be
severe and prompt treatment is important.

The exact cause is unknown, but it is an autoimmune disorder.

GPA is most common in middle-aged adults of northern European descent. It is
rare in children, but has been seen in infants as young as 3 months old.

## Symptoms

Frequent sinusitis and bloody noseÂ are the most common symptoms. Other early
symptoms include a fever that has no clear cause, night sweats, fatigue, and a
general ill feeling (malaise).

Other common symptoms may include:

      * Chronic ear infections 
      * Pain, and sores around the opening of the nose 
      * Cough with or without blood in the sputum
      * Chest pain and shortness of breath as the disease progresses
      * Loss of appetite and weight loss
      * Skin changes such as bruises and ulcers of the skin
      * Kidney problems
      * Bloody urine
      * Eye problems ranging from mild conjunctivitis to severe swelling of the eye.

Less common symptoms include:

      * Joint pain
      * Weakness
      * Abdominal pain

## Exams and Tests

You may have a blood test that looks for proteins called antineutrophil
cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA). These are often found in people with active
GPA. However, this test is sometimes negative, even in people with the
condition.

A chest x-ray will be done to look for signs of lung disease.

Urinalysis is done to look for signs of kidney disease such as protein and
blood in the urine. Sometimes urine is collected over 24 hours to check how
the kidneys are working.

Blood tests may be done to exclude other illnesses. These may include:

      * Antinuclear antibodies
      * Anti-glomerular basement membrane (anti-GBM) antibodies
      * C3 and C4, cryoglobulins, hepatitis serologies, HIV
      * Liver function tests
      * Tuberculosis screen and blood cultures

A biopsy is sometimes needed to confirm the diagnosis and determine how severe
the disease is. A kidney biopsy is most commonly done. You may have one of the
following:

      * Nasal mucosal biopsy
      * Open lung biopsy
      * Skin biopsy
      * Upper airway biopsy

Other tests that may be done include:

      * Sinus CT scan
      * Chest CT scan 

## Treatment

YouÂ will probablyÂ be treated glucocorticoids (such as prednisone). These are
given along with other medicines that slow down the immune response.

Medicines used with prednisone to treat GPA include:

      * Rituximab (Rituxan)
      * Cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan)
      * Methotrexate 
      * Azathioprine (Imuran)
      * Mycophenolate

These medicines are effective in severe disease, but they may cause serious
side effects. Talk to your health care provider about your treatment plan.

Other medicines used for the condition include:

      * Medicines to prevent bone loss caused by prednisone
      * Folic acid or folinic acid, if you are taking methotrexate
      * Antibiotics to prevent lung infections 

## Support Groups

Support groups with others who suffer from similar diseases may help people
with the condition and their families learn about the diseases and adjust to
the changes associated with the treatment.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Without treatment, people with severe forms of this disease can die within a
few months.

With treatment, the outlook for most patients is good. Most people who receive
corticosteroids and other medicines that slow the immune response get much
better.

The disease may return about half the time. It often comes back within 2 years
of stopping treatment, so ongoing follow-up and possibly treatment are needed.

## Possible Complications

Complications most often occur when the disease is not treated. People with
GPA develop tissue damage in the lungs, airways, and the kidneys. Kidney
involvement may result in blood in the urine and kidney failure. Kidney
disease can quickly get worse. Kidney function may not improve even when the
condition is controlled by medicines.

If untreated, kidney failure and possibly death occur in most cases.

Other complications may include:

      * Eye swelling
      * Lung failure
      * Coughing up blood
      * Nasal septum perforation (hole inside the nose)
      * Side effects from medicines used to treat the disease 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You develop chest pain and shortness of breath.
      * You cough up blood.
      * You have blood in your urine.
      * You have other symptoms of this disorder.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention.

## Alternative Names

Formerly: Wegener's granulomatosis

## Images

      * ![Adenocarcinoma - chest x-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1597t.jpg)Adenocarcinoma - chest x-ray
      * ![Granulomatosis with polyangiitis on the leg](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2873t.jpg)Granulomatosis with polyangiitis on the leg
      * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Falk RJ, Gross WL, Guillevin L, et al. Granulomatosis with polyangiitis
(Wegener's): an alternative name for Wegener's granulomatosis. _Ann Rheum
Dis._ 2011;70(4):704. PMID: 21372195 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21372195.

Specks U, Merkel PA, Seo P, et al. Efficacy of remission-induction regimens
for ANCA-associated vasculitis. _N Engl J Med._ 2013;369(5):417-427. PMID:
23902481 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23902481.

Stone JH. The systemic vasculitides. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine._ 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 270.

Stone JH, Merkel PA, Spiera R, et al. Rituximab versus cyclophosphamide for
ANCA-associated vasculitis. _N Engl J Med._ 2010;363(3):221-232. PMID:
20647199 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20647199.

## Review Date 10/1/2017

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
Rheumatology, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Granulomatosis with
Polyangiitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GranulomatosiswithPolyangiitis_thumb.jpg)Granulomatosis
with Polyangiitis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

