Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000689.htm    
                                Description: Anal itching occurs when the skin around your anus becomes irritated. You may feel intense itching around and just inside the anus.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Anal itching - self-care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000689.htm

# Anal itching - self-care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Anal itching occurs when the skin around your anus becomes irritated. You may
feel intense itching around and just inside the anus.

## Causes

Anal itching may be caused by:

      * Spicy foods, caffeine, alcohol, and other irritating foods and beverages
      * Scents or dyes in toilet paper or soap
      * Diarrhea
      * Hemorrhoids, which are swollen veins in or around your anus
      * Sexually transmitted infections (STIs)
      * Taking antibiotics
      * Yeast infections
      * Parasites, such as pinworms, which more commonly occur in children 

## Self-care at Home

To treat anal itching at home, you should keep the area as clean and dry as
possible.

      * Clean the anus gently after bowel movements, without scrubbing. Use a squeeze bottle of water, unscented baby wipes, a wet washcloth, or wet unscented toilet paper.
      * Avoid soaps with dyes or fragrances.
      * Pat dry with a clean, soft towel or unscented toilet paper. Do not rub the area.
      * Try over-the-counter creams, ointments, or gels with hydrocortisone or zinc oxide, made to soothe anal itching. Be sure to follow the directions for use on the package.
      * Wear loose clothing and cotton underwear to help keep the area dry.
      * Try not to scratch the area. This can cause swelling and irritation, and make itching worse.
      * Avoid foods and beverages that can cause loose stools or irritate the skin around the anus. This includes spicy foods, caffeine, and alcohol.
      * Use fiber supplements, if needed, to help you have regular bowel movements. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your health care provider if you have:

      * A rash or lump in or around the anus
      * Bleeding or discharge from the anus
      * Fever 

Also, call your provider if self-care does not help within 2 or 3 weeks.

## Alternative Names

Pruritus ani - self-care

## References

Abdelnaby A, Downs JM. Diseases of the anorectum. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 129.

Coates WC. Disorders of the anorectum. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 86.

Davis B. The management of pruritus ani. In: Cameron JL, Cameron AM, eds.
_Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:295-298.

## Review Date 5/13/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Anal Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

