Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001130.htm    
                                Description: An anal fissure is a small split or tear in the thin moist tissue (mucosa) lining the lower rectum (anus).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Anal fissure

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001130.htm

# Anal fissure

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An anal fissure is a small split or tear in the thin moist tissue (mucosa)
lining the lower rectum (anus).

## Causes

Anal fissures are very common in infants, but they may occur at any age.

In adults, fissures may be caused by passing large, hard stools, or having
diarrhea for a long time. Other factors may include:

      * Decreased blood flow to the area
      * Too much tension in the sphincter muscles that control the anus 

The condition affects males and females equally. Anal fissures are also common
in women after childbirth and in people with Crohn disease.

## Symptoms

An anal fissure can be seen as a crack in the anal skin when the area is
stretched slightly. The fissure is almost always in the middle. Anal fissures
may cause painful bowel movements and bleeding. There may be blood on the
outside of the stool or on the toilet paper (or baby wipes) after a bowel
movement.

Symptoms may begin suddenly or develop slowly over time.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a rectal exam and look at the anal
tissue. Other medical tests that may be done include:

      * Anoscopy \-- examination of the anus, anal canal, and lower rectum
      * Sigmoidoscopy \-- examination of the lower part of large intestine
      * Biopsy \-- removal of rectal tissue for examination
      * Colonoscopy \-- examination of the colon

## Treatment

Most fissures heal on their own and do not need treatment.

To prevent or treat anal fissures in infants, be sure to change diapers often
and clean the area gently.

CHILDREN AND ADULTS

Worrying about pain during a bowel movement may cause a person to avoid them.
But not having bowel movements will only cause the stools to become even
harder, which can make the anal fissure worse.

Prevent hard stools and constipation by:

      * Making dietary changes -- eating more fiber or bulk, such as fruits, vegetables, and grains
      * Drinking more fluids
      * Using stool softeners 

Ask your provider about the following ointments or creams to help soothe the
affected skin:

      * Numbing cream, if pain interferes with normal bowel movements
      * Petroleum jelly
      * Zinc oxide, 1% hydrocortisone cream, Preparation H, and other products 

A sitz bath is a warm water bath used for healing or cleansing. Sit in the
bath 2 to 3 times a day. The water should cover only the hips and buttocks.

If the anal fissures do not go away with home care methods, treatment may
involve:

      * Botox injections into the muscle in the anus (anal sphincter)
      * Minor surgery to relax the anal muscle
      * Prescription creams such as nitrates or calcium channel blockers, applied over the fissure to help relax the muscles 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Anal fissures often heal quickly without any more problems.

People who develop fissures once are more likely to have them in the future.

## Alternative Names

Fissure in ano; Anorectal fissure; Anal ulcer

## Images

      * ![Rectum](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9390t.jpg)Rectum
      * ![Anal fissure - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/15766t.jpg)Anal fissure - series

## References

Abdelnaby A, Downs JM. Diseases of the anorectum. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 129.

Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF. Surgical conditions of the
anus and rectum. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds.
_Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 344.

Merchea A, Larson DW. Anus. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox
KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 52.

## Review Date 6/11/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Doctor](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnalDisordersAndAnalCancer_thumb.jpg)Anal
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

