Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000004.htm    
                                Description: Your child had surgery to repair birth defects that caused a cleft in which the lip or the roof of the mouth did not grow together normally while your child was in the womb. Your child had general anesthesia    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cleft lip and palate repair - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000004.htm

# Cleft lip and palate repair - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your child had surgery to repair birth defects that caused a cleft in which
the lip or the roof of the mouth did not grow together normally while your
child was in the womb. Your child had general anesthesia (asleep and not
feeling pain) for the surgery.

## What to Expect at Home

After anesthesia, it is normal for children to have stuffy noses. They may
need to breathe through their mouths for the first week. There will be some
drainage from their mouths and noses. The drainage should go away after about
1 week.

## Incision Care

Clean the incision (surgery wound) after feeding your child.

      * Your health care provider may give you a special liquid for cleaning the wound. Use a cotton swab (Q-tip) to do so.
      * Wash your hands before starting.
      * Begin at the end that is closer to the nose.
      * Always begin cleaning away from the incision in small circles. DO NOT rub right on the wound.
      * If your doctor gave you an antibiotic ointment, put it on your child's incision after it is clean and dry. 

Some stitches will break apart or go away on their own. The provider will need
to take others out at the first follow-up visit. DO NOT remove your child's
stitches yourself.

You will need to protect your child's incision.

      * Feed your child only the way your provider told you.
      * DO NOT give your child a pacifier.
      * Babies will need to sleep in an infant seat, on their backs.
      * DO NOT hold your child with their face toward your shoulder. They can bump their nose and harm their incision.
      * Keep all hard toys away from your child.
      * Use clothes that do not need to be pulled over the child's head or face. 

## Feeding

Young infants should be eating only breast milk or formula. When feeding, hold
your infant in an upright position.

Use a cup or the side of a spoon for giving your child drinks. If you use a
bottle, use only the kind of bottle and nipple that your doctor has
recommended.

Older infants or young children will need to have their food softened or
pureed for some time after surgery so it is easy to swallow. Use a blender or
food processor to prepare food for your child.

Children who are eating foods other than breast milk or formula should be
sitting when they eat. Feed them only with a spoon. DO NOT use forks, straws,
chopsticks, or other utensils that can harm their incisions.

There are many good food choices for your child after surgery. Always make
sure the food is cooked until it is soft, then pureed. Good food options
include:

      * Cooked meats, fish, or chicken. Blend with broth, water, or milk.
      * Mashed tofu or mashed potatoes. Make sure they are smooth and thinner than normal.
      * Yogurt, pudding, or gelatin.
      * Small curd cottage cheese.
      * Formula or milk.
      * Creamy soups.
      * Cooked cereals and baby foods. 

Foods your child should NOT eat include:

      * Seeds, nuts, bits of candy, chocolate chips, or granola (not plain, nor mixed into other foods)
      * Gum, jelly beans, hard candy, or suckers
      * Chunks of meat, fish, chicken, sausage, hot dogs, hard cooked eggs, fried vegetables, lettuce, fresh fruit, or solid pieces of canned fruit or vegetables
      * Peanut butter (not creamy or chunky)
      * Toasted bread, bagels, pastries, dry cereal, popcorn, pretzels, crackers, potato chips, cookies, or any other crunchy foods 

## Activity

Your child may play quietly. Avoid running and jumping until the provider says
it is OK.

Your child may go home with arm cuffs or splints. These will keep your baby
from rubbing or scratching the incision. Your child will need to wear the
cuffs most of the time for about 2 weeks. Put on the cuffs over a long-sleeve
shirt. Tape them to the shirt to keep them in place if needed.

      * You may take the cuffs off 2 or 3 times a day. Take off only 1 at a time.
      * Move your child's arms and hands around, always holding on and keeping them from touching the incision.
      * Make sure there is no red skin or sores on your child's arms where the cuffs are placed.
      * Your child's provider will tell you when you can stop using the cuffs.

Ask your provider when it is safe to go swimming. Children may have tubes in
their eardrums and need to keep water out of their ears.

## Follow-up Care

Your provider will refer your child to a speech therapist. Most times, speech
therapy lasts 2 months. You will be told when to make a follow-up appointment.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

      * Any part of the incision is opening or stitches come apart.
      * The incision is red, or there is drainage.
      * There is any bleeding from the incision, mouth, or nose. If bleeding is heavy, go to the emergency room or call 911.
      * Your child is not able to drink any liquids.
      * Your child has a fever of 101Â°F (38.3Â°C) or higher.
      * Your child has any fever that does not go away after 2 or 3 days.
      * Your child has problems breathing. 

## Alternative Names

Orofacial cleft - discharge; Craniofacial birth defect repair - discharge;
Cheiloplasty - discharge; Cleft rhinoplasty - discharge; Palatoplasty -
discharge; Tip rhinoplasty - discharge

## References

Costello BJ, Ruiz RL. Comprehensive management of facial clefts. In: Fonseca
RJ, ed. _Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, vol 3_. 3rd ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 28.

Shaye D, Liu CC, Tollefson TT. Cleft lip and palate: an evidence-based review.
_Facial Plast Surg Clin North Am_. 2015;23(3):357-372. PMID: 26208773
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26208773.

Wang TD, Milczuk HA. Cleft lip and palate. In: Lesperance MM, Flint PW, eds.
_Cummings Pediatric Otolaryngology_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 8.

## Read More

      * Cleft lip and palate
      * Cleft lip and palate repair

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Tang Ho, MD, Assistant Professor, Division of Facial Plastic and
Reconstructive Surgery, Department of Otolaryngology â Head and Neck
Surgery, The University of Texas Medical School at Houston, Houston, TX. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cleft Lip and Palate

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

