Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002979.htm    
                                Description: Cleft lip and cleft palate repair is surgery to fix birth defects of the upper lip and palate (roof of the mouth).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cleft lip and palate repair

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002979.htm

# Cleft lip and palate repair

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cleft lip and cleft palate repair is surgery to fix birth defects of the upper
lip and palate (roof of the mouth).

## Description

A cleft lip is a birth defect:

      * A cleft lip may be just a small notch in the lip. It may also be a complete split in the lip that goes all the way to the base of the nose.
      * A cleft palate can be on one or both sides of the roof of the mouth. It may go the full length of the palate.
      * Your child may have one or both of these conditions at birth.

Most times, cleft lip repair is done when the child is 3 to 6 months old.

For cleft lip surgery, your child will have general anesthesia (asleep and not
feeling pain). The surgeon will trim the tissues and sew the lip together. The
stitches will be very small so that the scar is as small as possible. Most of
the stitches will be absorbed into the tissue as the scar heals, so they will
not have to be removed later.

Most times, cleft palate repair is done when the child is older, between 9
months and 1 year old. This allows the palate to change as the baby grows.
Doing the repair when the child is this age will help prevent further speech
problems as the child develops.

In cleft palate repair, your child will have general anesthesia (asleep and
not feeling pain). Tissue from the roof of the mouth may be moved over to
cover the soft palate. Sometimes a child will need more than one surgery to
close the palate.

During these procedures, the surgeon may also need to repair the tip of your
child's nose. This surgery is called rhinoplasty.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

This type of surgery is done to correct a physical defect caused by a cleft
lip or cleft palate. It is important to correct these conditions as they can
cause problems with nursing, feeding, or speech.

## Risks

Risks from any surgery include:

      * Breathing problems
      * Reactions to the medicines
      * Bleeding
      * Infection
      * Need for further surgery 

Problems these surgeries may cause are:

      * The bones in the middle of the face may not grow correctly.
      * The connection between the mouth and nose may not be normal. 

## Before the Procedure

You will meet with a speech therapist or feeding therapist soon after your
child is born. The therapist will help you find the best way to feed your
child before the surgery. Your child must gain weight and be healthy before
surgery.

Your child's health care provider may:

      * Test your child's blood (do a complete blood count and "type and cross" to check your child's blood type)
      * Take a complete medical history of your child
      * Do a complete physical exam of your child

Always tell your child's provider:

      * What medicines you are giving your child. Include drugs, herbs, and vitamins you bought without a prescription.

During the days before the surgery:

      * About 10 days before the surgery, you will be asked to stop giving your child aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), warfarin (Coumadin), and any other drugs that make it hard for your child's blood to clot.
      * Ask which drugs the child should still take on the day of the surgery. 

On the day of the surgery:

Most times, your child will not be able to drink or eat anything for several
hours before the surgery.

      * Give your child a small sip of water with any drugs your doctor told you to give your child.
      * You will be told when to arrive for the surgery.
      * The provider will make sure your child is healthy before the surgery. If your child is ill, surgery may be delayed.

## After the Procedure

Your child will probably be in the hospital for 5 to 7 days right after
surgery. Complete recovery can take up to 4 weeks.

The surgery wound must be kept very clean as it heals. It must not be
stretched or have any pressure put on it for 3 to 4 weeks. Your child's nurse
should show you how to take care of the wound. You will need to clean it with
soap and water or a special cleaning liquid, and keep it moist with ointment.

Until the wound heals, your child will be on a liquid diet. Your child will
probably have to wear arm cuffs or splints to prevent picking at the wound. It
is important for your child not to put hands or toys in their mouth.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most babies heal without problems. How your child will look after healing
often depends on how serious the defect was. Your child might need another
surgery to fix the scar from the surgery wound.

A child who had a cleft palate repair may need to see a dentist or
orthodontist. The teeth may need correcting as they come in.

Hearing problems are common in children with cleft lip or cleft palate. Your
child should have a hearing test early on, and it should be repeated over
time.

Your child may still have problems with speech after the surgery. This is
caused by muscle problems in the palate. Speech therapy will help your child.

## Alternative Names

Orofacial cleft; Craniofacial birth defect repair; Cheiloplasty; Cleft
rhinoplasty; Palatoplasty; Tip rhinoplasty

## Patient Instructions

      * Cleft lip and palate repair - discharge 

## Images

      * ![Cleft lip repair - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23238t.jpg)Cleft lip repair - series

## References

Allen GC. Cleft lip and palate. In: Scholes MA, Ramakrishnan VR, eds. _ENT
Secrets_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 51.

Costello BJ, Ruiz RL. Comprehensive management of facial clefts. In: Fonseca
RJ, ed. _Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 28.

Wang TD, Milczuk HA. Cleft lip and palate. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V,
et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 187.

## Review Date 2/27/2019

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cleft Lip and
Palate](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CleftlipandPalate_thumb.jpg)Cleft Lip
and Palate _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

