Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001051.htm    
                                Description: Cleft lip and palate are birth defects that affect the upper lip and the roof of the mouth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cleft lip and palate

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001051.htm

# Cleft lip and palate

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cleft lip and palate are birth defects that affect the upper lip and the roof
of the mouth.

## Causes

There are many causes of cleft lip and palate. Problems with genes passed down
from 1 or both parents, drugs, viruses, or other toxins can all cause these
birth defects. Cleft lip and palate may occur along with other syndromes or
birth defects.

A cleft lip and palate can:

      * Affect the appearance of the face
      * Lead to problems with feeding and speech
      * Lead to ear infections 

Babies are more likely to be born with a cleft lip and palate if they have a
family history of these conditions or other birth defects.

## Symptoms

A child may have one or more birth defects.

A cleft lip may be just a small notch in the lip. It may also be a complete
split in the lip that goes all the way to the base of the nose.

A cleft palate can be on one or both sides of the roof of the mouth. It may go
the full length of the palate.

Other symptoms include:

      * Change in nose shape (how much the shape changes varies)
      * Poorly aligned teeth 

Problems that may be present because of a cleft lip or palate are:

      * Failure to gain weight
      * Feeding problems
      * Flow of milk through nasal passages during feeding
      * Poor growth
      * Repeated ear infections
      * Speech difficulties 

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam of the mouth, nose, and palate confirms a cleft lip or cleft
palate. Medical tests may be done to rule out other possible health
conditions.

## Treatment

Surgery to close the cleft lip is often done when the child is between 2
months and 9 months old. Surgery may be needed later in life if the problem
has a major effect on the nose area.

A cleft palate is most often closed within the first year of life so that the
child's speech develops normally. Sometimes, a prosthetic device is
temporarily used to close the palate so the baby can feed and grow until
surgery can be done.

Continued follow-up may be needed with speech therapists and orthodontists.

## Support Groups

For more resources and information, see cleft palate support groups.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most babies will heal without problems. How your child will look after healing
depends on the severity of their condition. Your child might need another
surgery to fix the scar from the surgery wound.

Children who had a cleft palate repair may need to see a dentist or
orthodontist. Their teeth may need to be corrected as they come in.

Hearing problems are common in children with cleft lip or palate. Your child
should have a hearing test at an early age, and it should be repeated over
time.

Your child may still have problems with speech after the surgery. This is
caused by muscle problems in the palate. Speech therapy will help your child.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Cleft lip and palate is most often diagnosed at birth. Follow your health care
provider's recommendations for follow-up visits. Call your provider if
problems develop between visits.

## Alternative Names

Cleft palate; Craniofacial defect

## Patient Instructions

      * Cleft lip and palate repair - discharge 

## Images

      * ![Cleft lip repair - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23238t.jpg)Cleft lip repair - series

## References

Dhar V. Cleft lip and palate. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 336.

Wang TD, Milczuk HA. Cleft lip and palate. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V,
et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 187.

## Review Date 4/4/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Children's Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cleft Lip and
Palate](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CleftlipandPalate_thumb.jpg)Cleft Lip
and Palate _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

