Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000525.htm    
                                Description: Lasik eye surgery permanently changes the shape of the cornea (the clear covering on the front of the eye). It is done to improve vision and reduce the need for glasses or contact lenses.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lasik eye surgery - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000525.htm

# Lasik eye surgery - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Lasik eye surgery permanently changes the shape of the cornea (the clear
covering on the front of the eye). It is done to improve vision and reduce the
need for glasses or contact lenses.

## What to Expect at Home

After you have surgery, an eye shield or patch will be placed over the eye. It
will protect the flap and help prevent rubbing or pressure on the eye until it
has healed (most often overnight).

Right after the surgery, you may have burning, itching, or a feeling that
something is in the eye. This most often goes away within 6 hours.

Vision is often blurry or hazy the day of surgery. The blurriness starts to go
away by the next day.

At the first doctor visit after surgery:

      * The eye shield is removed.
      * The doctor examines your eye and tests your vision.
      * You will receive eye drops to help prevent infection and inflammation.

DO NOT drive until you have been cleared by your doctor and your vision has
improved enough to do so safely.

## Self-care

You may be prescribed a mild pain reliever and a sedative to help your relax.
It is very important not to rub the eye after surgery, so that the flap does
not dislodge or move. Keep your eye closed as much as possible for the first 6
hours.

You will need to avoid the following for 2 to 4 weeks after surgery:

      * Swimming
      * Hot tubs and whirlpool
      * Contact sports
      * Lotions and creams around the eyes
      * Eye makeup 

Your health care provider will give you specific instructions on how to care
for your eye.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call the provider right away if you have severe pain or any of the post-
surgery symptoms worsen before your scheduled follow-up appointment. The first
follow-up is most often scheduled for 24 to 48 hours after surgery.

## Alternative Names

Laser-assisted in situ keratomileusis - discharge; Laser vision correction -
discharge; LASIK - discharge; Myopia - Lasik discharge; Nearsightedness -
Lasik discharge

## References

Chuck RS, Jacobs DS, Lee JK, et al. Refractive errors & refractive surgery
preferred practice patternÂ®. _Ophthalmology_. 2018;125(1):P1-P104. PMID:
29108748 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29108748.

Probst LE. LASIK Technique. In: Mannis MJ, Holland EJ, eds. _Cornea_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 166.

Sierra PB, Hardten DR, Davis EA. LASIK. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds.
_Ophthalmology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 3.5.

US Food & Drug Administration website. What should I expect before, during,
and after surgery?
www.fda.gov/MedicalDevices/ProductsandMedicalProcedures/SurgeryandLifeSupport/LASIK/ucm061270.htm.
Updated January 18, 2018. Accessed March 30, 2018.

Yanoff M, Cameron DJ. Diseases of the visual system. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 423.

## Review Date 3/6/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Laser Eye Surgery

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

