Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007699.htm    
                                Description: Vulvodynia is a pain disorder of the vulva. This is the outside area of a woman    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vulvodynia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007699.htm

# Vulvodynia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Vulvodynia is a pain disorder of the vulva. This is the outside area of a
woman's genitals. Vulvodynia causes severe pain, burning, and stinging of the
vulva.

## Causes

The exact cause of vulvodynia is unknown. Researchers are working to learn
more about the condition. Causes may include:

      * Irritation or injury to the nerves of the vulva
      * Hormonal changes
      * Overreaction in the cells of the vulva to infection or injury
      * Extra nerve fibers in the vulva
      * Weak pelvic floor muscles
      * Allergies to certain chemicals
      * Genetic factors that cause sensitivity or overreaction to infection or inflammation 

Sexually transmitted infections (STIs) DO NOT cause this condition.

## Symptoms

There are two main types of vulvodynia:

      * **Localized vulvodynia.** This is pain in just one area of the vulva, usually the opening of the vagina (vestibule). The pain often occurs due to pressure on the area, such as from sexual intercourse, inserting a tampon, or sitting for a long time.
      *  **General vulvodynia.** This is pain in different areas of the vulva. The pain is fairly constant, with some periods of relief. Pressure on the vulva, such as from sitting for a long time or wearing tight pants can make symptoms worse.

The vulvar pain is often:

      * Sharp
      * Burning
      * Itching
      * Throbbing 

You may feel symptoms all the time or just some of the time. At times, you may
feel pain in the area between your vagina and anus (perineum) and in the inner
thighs.

Vulvodynia may occur in teens or in women. Women with vulvodynia often
complain of pain during sexual activity. It may occur after having sex the
first time. Or, it may occur after years of sexual activity.

Certain things may trigger symptoms:

      * Sexual intercourse
      * Inserting a tampon
      * Wearing tight under wear or pants
      * Urinating
      * Sitting for a long time
      * Exercising or bicycling 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions about
your medical history. Your provider may do a urinalysis to rule out a urinary
tract infection. You may have other tests to rule out a yeast infection or
skin disease.

Your provider also may perform cotton swab test. During this test, the
provider will apply gentle pressure to different areas of your vulva and ask
you to rate your pain level. This will help identify specific areas of pain.

Vulvodynia is diagnosed when all other possible causes have been excluded.

## Treatment

The goal of the treatment is to reduce pain and relieve symptoms. No one
treatment works for all women. You also may need more than one type of
treatment to manage your symptoms.

You may be prescribed medicines to help relieve pain, including:

      * Anticonvulsants
      * Antidepressants
      * Opioids
      * Topical creams or ointments, such as lidocaine ointment and estrogen cream 

Other treatments and methods that may help include:

      * Physical therapy to strengthen the pelvic floor muscles.
      * Biofeedback helps relieve pain by teaching you to relax your pelvic floor muscles.
      * Injections of nerve blocks to decrease nerve pain.
      * Cognitive behavioral therapy to help you deal with your feelings and emotions.
      * Diet changes to avoid foods with oxalates, including spinach, beets, peanuts, and chocolate.
      * Acupuncture -- be sure to find a practitioner familiar with treating vulvodynia.
      * Other complementary medicine practices such as relaxation and meditation. 

LIFESTYLE CHANGES

Lifestyle changes may help prevent vulvodynia triggers and relieve symptoms.

      * DO NOT douche or use soaps or oils that may cause inflammation.
      * Wear all cotton underwear and don't use fabric softener on underpants.
      * Use laundry detergent for sensitive skin and double rinse your underwear.
      * Avoid tight-fitting clothes.
      * Avoid activities that put pressure the vulva, such as biking or riding horses.
      * Avoid hot tubs.
      * Use soft, uncolored toilet paper and rinse your vulva with cool water after urinating.
      * Use all-cotton tampons or pads.
      * Use a water-soluble lubricant during intercourse. Urinate after sex to prevent a UTI, and rinse the area with cool water.
      * Use a cold compress on your vulva to relieve pain, such as after intercourse or exercise (be sure to wrap the compress in a clean towel - DO NOT apply it directly to your skin). 

SURGERY

Some women with localized vulvodynia may need surgery to relieve pain. The
surgery removes the affected skin and tissues around the vaginal opening.
Surgery is done only if all the other treatments fail.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a support group. Sharing with
others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel alone.

The following organization provides information on vulvodynia and local
support groups:

      * National Vulvodynia Association - www.nva.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Vulvodynia is a complicated disease. It may take weeks to months to achieve
some pain relief. Treatment may not ease all symptoms. A combination of
treatments and lifestyle changes may work best to help manage the disease.

## Possible Complications

Having this condition can take a physical and emotional toll. It can cause:

      * Depression and anxiety
      * Problems in personal relations
      * Sleep problems
      * Problems with sex 

Working with a therapist can help you better deal with having a chronic
condition.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of vulvodynia.

Also call your provider if you have vulvodynia and your symptoms get worse.

## References

American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists' Committee on Gynecologic
Practice; American Society for Colposcopy and Cervical Pathology (ASCCP).
Committee Opinion No 673: persistent vulvar pain. _Obstet Gynecol_.
2016;128(3):e78-e84. PMID: 27548558 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27548558.

Bornstein J, Goldstein AT, Stockdale CK, et al. 2015 ISSVD, ISSWSH, and IPPS
consensus terminology and classification of persistent vulvar pain and
vulvodynia. _J Low Genit Tract Dis_. 2016;20(2):126-130. PMID: 27002677
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27002677.

National Vulvodynia Association. What is vulvodynia? www.nva.org/what-is-
vulvodynia. Accessed July 25, 2018.

Waldman SD. Vulvodynia. In: Waldman SD, ed. _Atlas of Uncommon Pain
Syndromes_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 87.

## Review Date 6/28/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Vulvar
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VulvarDisorders_thumb.jpg)Vulvar
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

