Link: https://medlineplus.gov/chronicfatiguesyndrome.html    
                                Description: If you have had six or more months of extreme debilitating fatigue you may have Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS). Read about symptoms and what can help.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Chronic Fatigue Syndrome

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/chronicfatiguesyndrome.html

#  Chronic Fatigue Syndrome

Also called: CFS, ME/CFS, Myalgic Encephalomyelitis, SEID, Systemic Exertion
Intolerance Disease

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Symptoms
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is chronic fatigue syndrome?

Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) is a serious, long-term illness that affects
many body systems. Another name for it is myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic
fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS). CFS can often make you unable to do your usual
activities. Sometimes you may not even be able to get out of bed.

### What causes chronic fatigue syndrome?

The cause of CFS is unknown. There may be more than one thing that causes it.
It is possible that two or more triggers might work together to cause the
illness.

### Who is at risk for chronic fatigue syndrome?

Anyone can get CFS, but it is most common in people between 40 and 60 years
old. Adult women have it more often that adult men. Whites are more likely
than other races to get a diagnosis of CFS, but many people with CFS have not
been diagnosed with it.

### What are the symptoms of chronic fatigue syndrome?

CFS symptoms can include

    * Severe fatigue that is not improved by rest
    * Sleep problems
    * Post-exertional malaise (PEM), where your symptoms get worse after any physical or mental activity
    * Problems with thinking and concentrating
    * Pain
    * Dizziness

CFS can be unpredictable. Your symptoms may come and go. They may change over
time - sometimes they might get better, and other times they may get worse.

### How is chronic fatigue syndrome diagnosed?

CFS can be difficult to diagnose. There is no specific test for CFS, and other
illnesses can cause similar symptoms. Your health care provider has to rule
out other diseases before making a diagnosis of CFS. He or she will do a
thorough medical exam, including

    * Asking about your medical history and your family's medical history
    * Asking about your current illness, including your symptoms. Your doctor will want to know how often you have symptoms, how bad they are, how long they have lasted, and how they affect your life.
    * A thorough physical and mental status exam
    * Blood, urine or other tests

### What are the treatments for chronic fatigue syndrome?

There is no cure or approved treatment for CFS, but you may be able to treat
or manage some of your symptoms. You, your family, and your health care
provider should work together to decide on a plan. You should figure out which
symptom causes the most problems and try to treat that first. For example, if
sleep problems affect you the most, you might first try using good sleep
habits. If those do not help, you may need to take medicines or see a sleep
specialist.

Strategies such as learning new ways to manage activity can also be helpful.
You need to make sure that you do not "push and crash." This can happen when
you feel better, do too much, and then get worse again.

Since the process of developing a treatment plan and attending to self-care
can be hard if you have CFS, it is important to have support from family
members and friends.

Don't try any new treatments without talking to your health care provider.
Some treatments that are promoted as cures for CFS are unproven, often costly,
and could be dangerous.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Start Here

    * Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health)
    * Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome: What is ME/CFS? (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Symptoms

    * Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome: Symptoms (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome: Diagnosis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Are There Any Natural Remedies That Reduce Chronic Fatigue Associated with Chronic Fatigue Syndrome? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome: Treatment (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Chronic Fatigue Syndrome in Gulf War Veterans (Department of Veterans Affairs)
    * Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome: Possible Causes (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Fatigue Syndrome, Chronic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Chronic fatigue syndrome: What nurses need to know.
    * Article: Evidence of altered cardiac autonomic regulation in myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome:...
    * Article: Neuroimmunology: What Role for Autoimmunity, Neuroinflammation, and Small Fiber Neuropathy in...
    * Chronic Fatigue Syndrome -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish

## Children

    * Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)
    * ME/CFS in Children: Fact Sheet for Parents/Guardians (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Symptoms and Diagnosis of ME/CFS in Children (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Treatment of ME/CFS in Children (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Teenagers

    * Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Chronic fatigue syndrome (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Chronic Fatigue Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CFS.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Chronic fatigue syndrome

## Related Health Topics

    * Fatigue

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Chronic Fatigue Syndrome is the
National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 16 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 30 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

