Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000561.htm    
                                Description: The radius bone goes from your elbow to your wrist. The radial head is at the top of the radius bone, just below your elbow. A fracture is a break in your bone.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Radial head fracture - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000561.htm

# Radial head fracture - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The radius bone goes from your elbow to your wrist. The radial head is at the
top of the radius bone, just below your elbow. A fracture is a break in your
bone.

The most common cause of a radial head fracture is falling with an
outstretched arm.

## What to Expect

You may have pain and swelling for 1 to 2 weeks.

If you have a small fracture and your bones did not move around much, you will
likely wear a splint or sling that supports your arm, elbow, and forearm. You
will probably need to wear this for at least 2 to 3 weeks.

If your break is more severe, you may need to see a bone doctor (orthopedic
surgeon). Some fractures require surgery to:

      * Insert screws and plates to hold your bones in place
      * Replace the broken piece with a metal part
      * Repair torn ligaments (tissues that connect bones)

Depending on how severe your fracture is and on other factors, you may not
have full range of motion after you recover. Most fractures heal well in 6 to
8 weeks.

## Self-care at Home

To help with pain and swelling:

      * Apply an ice pack to the injured area. To prevent skin injury, wrap the ice pack in a clean cloth before applying.
      * Keeping your arm at the level of your heart can also reduce swelling.

For pain, you can use ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn),
or acetaminophen (Tylenol). You can buy these pain medicines without a
prescription.

      * Talk with your health care provider before using these medicines if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, or have had stomach ulcers or internal bleeding in the past.
      * DO NOT take more than the amount recommended on the bottle.
      * DO NOT give aspirin to children.

Follow your provider's instructions about using your sling or splint. Your
provider will tell you when you can:

      * Start moving your shoulder, wrist, and fingers while wearing your sling or splint
      * Remove the splint to take a shower or bath

Keep your sling or splint dry.

## Activity

You will also be told when you can remove your sling or splint and begin
moving and using your elbow.

      * Using your elbow as early as you were told to may improve your range of motion after you recover.
      * Your provider will tell you how much pain is normal as you begin using your elbow.
      * You may need physical therapy if you have a severe fracture.

Your provider or physical therapist will tell you when you can start playing
sports or using your elbow for other activities.

## Follow-up

You will likely have a follow-up exam 1 to 3 weeks after your injury.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

      * Your elbow feels tight and painful
      * You feel tingling or numbness
      * Your skin is red, swollen, or you have an open sore
      * You have problems bending your elbow or lifting things after your sling or splint is removed 

## Alternative Names

Elbow fracture - radial head - aftercare

## References

King GJW. Fractures of the radial head. In: Wolfe SW, Hotchkiss RN, Pederson
WC, Kozin SH, Cohen MS, eds. _Green's Operative Hand Surgery_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 19.

Ozgur SE, Giangarra CE. Rehabilitation after fractures of the forearm and
elbow. In: Giangarra CE, Manske RC, eds. _Clinical Orthopaedic Rehabilitation:
A Team Approach_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 12.

## Review Date 4/9/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Arm Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

