Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000790.htm    
                                Description: Radial nerve dysfunction is a problem with the radial nerve. This is the nerve that travels from the armpit down the back of the arm to the hand. It helps you move your arm, wrist, and hand.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Radial nerve dysfunction

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000790.htm

# Radial nerve dysfunction

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Radial nerve dysfunction is a problem with the radial nerve. This is the nerve
that travels from the armpit down the back of the arm to the hand. It helps
you move your arm, wrist, and hand.

## Causes

Damage to one nerve group, such as the radial nerve, is called mononeuropathy.
Mononeuropathy means there is damage to a single nerve. Diseases affecting the
entire body (systemic disorders) can also cause isolated nerve damage.

Causes of mononeuropathy include:

      * An illness in the whole body that damages a single nerve
      * Direct injury to the nerve
      * Long-term pressure on the nerve
      * Pressure on the nerve caused by swelling or injury of nearby body structures 

Radial neuropathy occurs when there is damage to the radial nerve, which
travels down the arm and controls:

      * Movement of the triceps muscle at the back of the upper arm
      * Ability to bend the wrist and fingers backward
      * Movement and sensation of the wrist and hand 

When damage destroys the nerve covering (myelin sheath) or part of the nerve
itself, nerve signaling is slowed or prevented.

Damage to the radial nerve can be caused by:

      * Broken arm bone and other injury
      * Diabetes
      * Improper use of crutches
      * Lead poisoning
      * Long-term or repeated constriction of the wrist (for example, from wearing a tight watch strap)
      * Long-term pressure on the nerve, usually caused by swelling or injury of nearby body structures
      * Pressure to the upper arm from arm positions during sleep or coma 

In some cases, no cause can be found.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

      * Abnormal sensations in the back and thumb side of the hand, or in the thumb, 2nd, and 3rd fingers
      * Weakness, loss of coordination of the fingers
      * Problem straightening the arm at the elbow
      * Problem bending the hand back at the wrist, or holding the hand
      * Pain, numbness, decreased sensation, tingling, or burning sensation in the areas controlled by the nerve

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you and ask about your symptoms and
medical history. You may be asked what you were doing before the symptoms
started.

Tests that may be needed include:

      * Blood tests
      * Imaging tests to view the nerve and nearby structures
      * Electromyography (EMG) to check the health of the radial nerve and the muscles it controls
      * Nerve biopsy to examine a piece of nerve tissue (rarely needed)
      * Nerve conduction tests to check how fast nerve signals travel 

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to allow you to use the hand and arm as much as
possible. Your provider will find and treat the cause, if possible. Sometimes,
no treatment is needed and you will get better on your own.

If medicines are needed, they may include:

      * Over-the-counter or prescription pain medicines
      * Corticosteroid injections around the nerve to reduce swelling and pressure

Your provider will likely suggest self-care measures. These may include:

      * A supportive splint at either the wrist or elbow to help prevent further injury and relieve the symptoms. You may need to wear it all day and night, or only at night.
      * An elbow pad of the radial nerve is injured at the elbow. Also, avoid bumping or leaning on the elbow.
      * Physical therapy exercises to help maintain muscle strength in the arm.

Occupational therapy or counseling to suggest changes in the workplace may be
needed.

Surgery to relieve pressure on the nerve may help if the symptoms get worse,
or if there is proof that part of the nerve is wasting away.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If the cause of the nerve dysfunction can be found and successfully treated,
there is a good chance that you will fully recover. In some cases, there may
be partial or complete loss of movement or sensation.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Mild to severe deformity of the hand
      * Partial or complete loss of feeling in the hand
      * Partial or complete loss of wrist or hand movement
      * Recurrent or unnoticed injury to the hand

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have an arm injury and develop numbness, tingling,
pain, or weakness down the back of the arm and the thumb and your first 2
fingers.

## Prevention

Avoid prolonged pressure on the upper arm.

## Alternative Names

Neuropathy - radial nerve; Radial nerve palsy; Mononeuropathy

## Images

      * ![Radial nerve dysfunction](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9804t.jpg)Radial nerve dysfunction

## References

Craig A, Richardson JK, Ayyangar R. Rehabilitation of patients with
neuropathies. In: Cifu DX, ed. _Braddom's Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 41.

Katirji B. Disorders of peripheral nerves. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 107.

Mackinnon SE, Novak CB. Compression neuropathies. In: Wolfe SW, Hotchkiss RN,
Pederson WC, Kozin SH, Cohen MS, eds. _Green's Operative Hand Surgery_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 28.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Arm Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ArmInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Arm
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Hand Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HandInjuries_thumb.jpg)Hand Injuries
and Disorders _Read more_

![Peripheral Nerve
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeripheralNerveDisorders_thumb.jpg)Peripheral
Nerve Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

