Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001577.htm    
                                Description: Achondroplasia is a disorder of bone growth that causes the most common type of dwarfism.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Achondroplasia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001577.htm

# Achondroplasia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Achondroplasia is a disorder of bone growth that causes the most common type
of dwarfism.

## Causes

Achondroplasia is one of a group of disorders called chondrodystrophies, or
osteochondrodysplasias.

Achondroplasia may be inherited as an autosomal dominant trait, which means
that if a child gets the defective gene from one parent, the child will have
the disorder. If one parent has achondroplasia, the infant has a 50% chance of
inheriting the disorder. If both parents have the condition, the infant's
chances of being affected increase to 75%.

However, most cases appear as spontaneous mutations. This means that two
parents without achondroplasia may give birth to a baby with the condition.

## Symptoms

The typical appearance of achondroplastic dwarfism can be seen at birth.
Symptoms may include:

      * Abnormal hand appearance with persistent space between the long and ring fingers
      * Bowed legs
      * Decreased muscle tone
      * Disproportionately large head-to-body size difference
      * Prominent forehead (frontal bossing)
      * Shortened arms and legs (especially the upper arm and thigh)
      * Short stature (significantly below the average height for a person of the same age and sex)
      * Narrowing of the spinal column (spinal stenosis)
      * Spine curvatures called kyphosis and lordosis

## Exams and Tests

During pregnancy, a prenatal ultrasound may show excessive amniotic fluid
surrounding the unborn infant.

Examination of the infant after birth shows increased front-to-back head size.
There may be signs of hydrocephalus ("water on the brain").

X-rays of the long bones can reveal achondroplasia in the newborn.

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for achondroplasia. Related abnormalities,
including spinal stenosis and spinal cord compression, should be treated when
they cause problems.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People with achondroplasia seldom reach 5 feet (1.5 meters) in height.
Intelligence is in the normal range. Infants who receive the abnormal gene
from both parents do not often live beyond a few months.

## Possible Complications

Health problems that may develop include:

      * Breathing problems from a small upper airway and from pressure on the area of the brain that controls breathing
      * Lung problems from a small ribcage

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If there is a family history of achondroplasia and you plan to have children,
you may find it helpful to speak to your health care provider.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling may be helpful for prospective parents when one or both
have achondroplasia. However, because achondroplasia most often develops
spontaneously, prevention is not always possible.

## References

Hernandez-Andrade E, Yeo L, Goncalves LF, Leuwan S, Garcia M, Romero R. Fetal
musculoskeletal system. In: Norton ME, Scoutt LM, Feldstein VA, eds. _Callen's
Ultrasonography in Obstetrics and Gynecology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 11.

Horton WA, Hecht JT. Disorders involving transmembrane receptors. In: Kliegman
RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 696.

Krakow D. FGFR3 disorders: thanatophoric dysplasia, achondroplasia, and
hypochondroplasia. In: Copel JA, D'Alton ME, Feltovich H, et al, eds.
_Obstetric Imaging: Fetal Diagnosis and Care_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 50.

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Dwarfism](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dwarfism_thumb.jpg)Dwarfism _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

