Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001667.htm    
                                Description: Ellis-van Creveld syndrome is a rare genetic disorder that affects bone growth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ellis-van Creveld syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001667.htm

# Ellis-van Creveld syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ellis-van Creveld syndrome is a rare genetic disorder that affects bone
growth.

## Causes

Ellis-van Creveld is passed down through families (inherited). It is caused by
defects in 1 of 2 Ellis-van CreveldÂ syndrome genes ( _EVC_ and _EVC2_ ).
These genes are positioned next to each other on the same chromosome.

The severity of the disease varies from person to person. The highest rate of
the condition is seen among the Old Order Amish population of Lancaster
County, Pennsylvania. It is fairly rare in the general population.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Cleft lip or palate
      * Epispadias or undescended testicle (cryptorchidism)
      * Extra fingers (polydactyly)
      * Limited range of motion
      * Nail problems, including missing or deformed nails
      * Short arms and legs, especially forearm and lower leg
      * Short height, between 3.5Â to 5 feet (1Â to 1.5 meters) tall
      * Sparse, absent, or fine textured hair
      * Tooth abnormalities, such as peg teeth, widely-spaced teeth
      * Teeth present at birth (natal teeth)
      * Delayed or missing teeth

## Exams and Tests

Signs of this condition include:

      * Growth hormone deficiency
      * Heart defects, such as a hole in the heart (atrial septal defect), occur in about half of all cases

Tests include:

      * Chest x-ray
      * Echocardiogram
      * Genetic testing may beÂ performed for mutations inÂ one of theÂ two EVC genes
      * Skeletal x-ray
      * Ultrasound
      * Urinalysis

## Treatment

Treatment depends on which body system is affected and the severity of the
problem. The condition itself is not treatable, but many of the complications
can be treated.

## Support Groups

Many communities have EVC support groups. Ask your health care provider or
local hospital if there is one in your area.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Many babies with this condition die in early infancy. Most often this is due
to a small chest or heart defect. Stillbirth is common.

The outcome depends on which body system is involved and to what extent that
body system is involved. Like many genetic conditions involving bones or the
physical structure, intelligence is normal.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Bone abnormalities
      * Breathing difficulty
      * Congenital heart disease (CHD) especially atrial septal defect (ASD)
      * Kidney disease

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child has symptoms of this syndrome. If you have a
family history of EVC syndrome and your child has any symptoms, visit your
provider.

Genetic counseling can help families understand the condition and how to care
for the person.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling is recommended for prospective parents from a high-risk
group, or who have a family history of EVC syndrome.

## Alternative Names

Chondroectodermal dysplasia; EVC

## Images

      * ![Polydactyly - an infant's hand](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1719t.jpg)Polydactyly - an infant's hand
      * ![Chromosomes and DNA](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8770t.jpg)Chromosomes and DNA

## References

Chitty LS, Wilson LC, Ushakov F. Diagnosis and management of fetal skeletal
abnormalities. In: Pandya PP, Oepkes D, Sebire NJ, Wapner RJ, eds. _Fetal
Medicine: Basic Science and Clinical Practice_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 34.

Hecht JT, Horton WA. Other inherited disorders of skeletal development. In:
Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 720.

## Review Date 7/29/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Dwarfism](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dwarfism_thumb.jpg)Dwarfism _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

