Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000685.htm    
                                Description: Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) is a mental condition in which you    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Generalized anxiety disorder - self-care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000685.htm

# Generalized anxiety disorder - self-care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) is a mental condition in which you're
frequently worried or anxious about many things. Your anxiety may seem out of
control and get in the way of everyday activities.

The right treatment can often improve GAD. You and your health care provider
should make a treatment plan that could include talk therapy (psychotherapy),
taking medicine, or both.

## Taking Medicine

Your provider may prescribe one or more medicines, including:

      * An antidepressant, which can help with anxiety and depression. This kind of medicine may take weeks or months to start working. It is a safe medium- to long-term treatment for GAD.
      * A benzodiazepine, which acts faster than an antidepressant to control anxiety. However, benzodiazepines can become less effective and habit forming over time. Your provider may prescribe a benzodiazepine to help your anxiety while you wait for the antidepressant to work.

When taking medicine for GAD:

      * Keep your provider informed about your symptoms. If a medicine isn't controlling symptoms, its dosage may need to be changed, or you may need to try a new medicine instead.
      * DO NOT change the dosage or stop taking the medicine without talking to your provider.
      * Take medicine at set times. For example, take it every day at breakfast. Check with your provider about the best time to take your medicine.
      * Ask your provider about side effects and what to do if they occur. 

## Therapy

Talk therapy takes place with a trained therapist. It helps you learn ways of
managing and reducing your anxiety. Some forms of talk therapy can help you
understand what causes your anxiety. This allows you to gain better control
over it.

Many types of talk therapy may be helpful for GAD. One common and effective
talk therapy is cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT). CBT can help you
understand the relationship between your thoughts, your behaviors, and your
symptoms. Often, CBT involves a set number of visits. During CBT you can learn
how to:

      * Understand and gain control of distorted views of stressors, such as other people's behavior or life events.
      * Recognize and replace panic-causing thoughts to help you feel more in control.
      * Manage stress and relax when symptoms occur.
      * Avoid thinking that minor problems will develop into terrible ones.

Your provider can discuss talk therapy options with you. Then you can decide
together if it is right for you.

## Other Ways to Manage Your Anxiety

Taking medicine and going to talk therapy can get you started on the road to
feeling better. Taking care of your body and relationships can help improve
your condition. Here are some helpful tips:

      * Get enough sleep.
      * Eat healthy foods.
      * Keep a regular daily schedule.
      * Get out of the house every day.
      * Exercise every day. Even a little bit of exercise, such as a 15-minute walk, can help.
      * Stay away from alcohol and street drugs.
      * Talk with family or friends when you feel nervous or frightened.
      * Find out about different types of group activities you can join. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you:

      * Find it hard to control your anxiety
      * Do not sleep well
      * Feel sad or feel like you want to hurt yourself
      * Have physical symptoms from your anxiety 

## Alternative Names

GAD - self-care; Anxiety - self-care; Anxiety disorder - self-care

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Generalized anxiety disorder. _Diagnostic
and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American
Psychiatric Publishing; 2013:222-226.

Bui E, Pollack MH, Kinrys G, Delong H, Vasconcelos e Sa D, Simon NM. The
pharmacotherapy of anxiety disorders. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE,
Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical
Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 41.

Calkins AW, Bui E, Taylor CT, Pollack MH, LeBeau RT, Simon NM. Anxiety
disorders. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts
General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 32.

Sprich SE, Olatunji BO, Reese HE, Otto MW, Rosenfield E, Wilhelm S. Cognitive-
behavioral therapy, behavioral therapy, and cognitive therapy. In: Stern TA,
Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General Hospital
Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 16.

## Review Date 5/14/2019

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Anxiety

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

