Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000917.htm    
                                Description: Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) is a mental disorder in which a person is often worried or anxious about many things and finds it hard to control this anxiety.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Generalized anxiety disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000917.htm

# Generalized anxiety disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) is a mental disorder in which a person is
often worried or anxious about many things and finds it hard to control this
anxiety.

## Causes

The cause of GAD is unknown. Genes may play a role. Stress may also contribute
to the development of GAD.

![Stress and anxiety](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/9951.jpg)

GAD is a common condition. Anyone can develop this disorder, even children.
GAD occurs more often in women than in men.

## Symptoms

The main symptom is frequent worry or tension for at least 6 months, even when
there is little or no clear cause. Worries seem to float from one problem to
another. Problems may involve family, other relationships, work, school,
money, and health.

![Generalized anxiety
disorder](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17191.jpg)

Even when aware that worries or fears are stronger than appropriate for the
situation, a person with GAD still has difficulty controlling them.

Other symptoms of GAD include:

      * Problems concentrating
      * Fatigue
      * Irritability
      * Problems falling or staying asleep, or sleep that is restless and unsatisfying
      * Restlessness when awake 

The person may also have other physical symptoms. These can include muscle
tension, upset stomach, sweating, or difficulty breathing.

## Exams and Tests

There is no test that can make a diagnosis of GAD. The diagnosis is based on
your answers to questions about the symptoms of GAD. Your health care provider
will ask about these symptoms. You will also be asked about other aspects of
your mental and physical health. A physical exam or lab tests may be done to
rule out other conditions that cause similar symptoms.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to help you feel better and function well in daily
life. Talk therapy or medicine alone can be helpful. Sometimes, a combination
of these may work best.

TALK THERAPY

Many types of talk therapy may be helpful for GAD. One common and effective
talk therapy is cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT). CBT can help you
understand the relationship between your thoughts, behaviors, and symptoms.
Often CBT involves a set number of visits. During CBT you can learn how to:

      * Understand and gain control of distorted views of stressors, such as other people's behavior or life events.
      * Recognize and replace panic-causing thoughts to help you feel more in control.
      * Manage stress and relax when symptoms occur.
      * Avoid thinking that minor problems will develop into terrible ones. 

Other types of talk therapy may also be helpful in managing symptoms of an
anxiety disorder.

MEDICINES

Certain medicines, usually used to treat depression, may be very helpful for
this disorder. They work by preventing your symptoms or making them less
severe. You must take these medicines every day. DO NOT stop taking them
without talking with your provider.

Medicines called sedatives or hypnotics may also be prescribed.

      * These medicines should only be taken under a doctor's direction.
      * Your doctor will prescribe a limited amount of these drugs. They should not to be used everyday.
      * They may be used when symptoms become very severe or when you are about to be exposed to something that always brings on your symptoms.
      * If you are prescribed a sedative, do not drink alcohol while on this medicine. 

SELF-CARE

Other than taking medicine and going to therapy, you can help yourself get
better by:

      * Reducing caffeine
      * Not using street drugs or large amounts of alcohol
      * Exercising, getting enough rest, and eating healthy foods 

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of having GAD by joining a support group. Sharing with
others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel alone.
Support groups are usually not a good substitute for talk therapy or taking
medicine, but can be a helpful addition.

Resources for more information include:

      * Anxiety and Depression Association of America -- adaa.org
      * National Institute of Mental Health -- www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/anxiety-disorders/index.shtml

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does depends on how severe the condition is. In some cases,
GAD is long-term and is difficult to treat. Most people, though, get better
with medicine and/or talk therapy.

## Possible Complications

Depression and substance abuse may occur with an anxiety disorder.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you frequently worry or feel anxious, especially if it
interferes with your daily activities.

## Alternative Names

GAD; Anxiety disorder

## Images

      * ![Stress and anxiety](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9951t.jpg)Stress and anxiety
      * ![Generalized anxiety disorder](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17191t.jpg)Generalized anxiety disorder

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Anxiety disorders. In: American Psychiatric
Association. _Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders_. 5th ed.
Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing. 2013;189-234.

Calkins AW, Bui E, Taylor CT, Pollack MH, LeBeau RT, Simon NM. Anxiety
disorders. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts
General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 32.

Lyness JM. Psychiatric disorders in medical practice. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 397.

## Review Date 3/26/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Internal review and update on 04/15/2019 by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Anxiety](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anxiety_thumb.jpg)Anxiety _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

