Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003212.htm    
                                Description: Agitation is an unpleasant state of extreme arousal. An agitated person may feel stirred up, excited, tense, confused, or irritable.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Agitation

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003212.htm

# Agitation

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Agitation is an unpleasant state of extreme arousal. An agitated person may
feel stirred up, excited, tense, confused, or irritable.

## Considerations

Agitation can come on suddenly or over time. It can last for a few minutes,
for weeks, or even months. Pain, stress, and fever can all increase agitation.

Agitation by itself may not be a sign of a health problem. But if other
symptoms occur, it can be a sign of disease.

Agitation with a change in alertness (altered consciousness) can be a sign of
delirium. Delirium has a medical cause and should be checked by a health care
provider right away.

## Causes

There are many causes of agitation. Some of them are:

      * Alcohol intoxication or withdrawal
      * Allergic reaction
      * Caffeine intoxication
      * Certain forms of heart, lung, liver, or kidney disease
      * Intoxication or withdrawal from drugs of abuse (such as cocaine, marijuana, hallucinogens, PCP, or opiates)
      * Hospitalization (older adults often have delirium while in the hospital)
      * Overactive thyroid gland (hyperthyroidism)
      * Infection (especially in elderly people)
      * Nicotine withdrawal
      * Poisoning (for example, carbon monoxide poisoning)
      * Some medicines, including theophylline, amphetamines, and steroids
      * Trauma
      * Vitamin B6 deficiency 

Agitation can occur with brain and mental health disorders, such as:

      * Anxiety
      * Dementia (such as Alzheimer disease)
      * Depression
      * Mania
      * Schizophrenia

## Home Care

The most important way to deal with agitation is to find and treat the cause.
Agitation may lead to an increased risk of suicide and other forms of
violence.

After treating the cause, the following measures can reduce agitation:

      * A calm environment 
      * Enough lighting during the day and darkness at night 
      * Medicines such as benzodiazepines, and in some cases, antipsychotics 
      * Plenty of sleep 

DO NOT physically hold back an agitated person, if possible. This usually
makes the problem worse. Use restraints only if the person is at risk of
harming themselves or others, and there is no other way to control the
behavior.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider for agitation that:

      * Lasts a long time
      * Is very severe
      * Occurs with thoughts or actions of hurting yourself or others
      * Occurs with other, unexplained symptoms

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will take a medical history and do a physical examination. To
better understand your agitation, your provider may ask you specific things
about your agitation.

Tests may include:

      * Blood tests (such as a blood count, infection screening, thyroid tests, or vitamin levels)
      * Head CT or head MRI scan
      * Lumbar puncture (spinal tap)
      * Urine tests (for infection screening, drug screening)
      * Vital signs (temperature, pulse, breathing rate, blood pressure) 

Treatment depends on the cause of your agitation.

## Alternative Names

Restlessness

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Schizophrenia spectrum and other psychotic
disorders. In: American Psychiatric Association. _Diagnostic and Statistical
Manual of Mental Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric
Publishing; 2013:87-122.

Bope ET, Kellerman RD. Psychiatric disorders. In: Bope ET, Kellerman RD, eds.
_Conn's Current Therapy 2016_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:section 15.

Inouye SK. Delirium or acute mental status change in the older patient. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders;2016:chap 28.

Prager LM, Ivkovic A. Emergency psychiatry. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE,
Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical
Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 88.

## Review Date 3/26/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Anxiety](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anxiety_thumb.jpg)Anxiety _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

