Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000470.htm    
                                Description: It is normal for someone who is sick to feel uneasy, restless, afraid, or anxious. Certain thoughts, pain, or trouble breathing may trigger these feelings. Palliative care providers can help the person    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Palliative care - fear and anxiety

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000470.htm

# Palliative care - fear and anxiety

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

It is normal for someone who is sick to feel uneasy, restless, afraid, or
anxious. Certain thoughts, pain, or trouble breathing may trigger these
feelings. Palliative care providers can help the person cope with these
symptoms and feelings.

## Palliative Care

Palliative care is a holistic approach to care that focuses on treating pain
and symptoms and improving quality of life in people with serious illnesses.

## When You Have Fear or Anxiety

Fear or anxiety may lead to:

      * Feelings that things are not right
      * Fear
      * Worry
      * Confusion
      * Unable to pay attention, focus, or concentrate
      * Loss of control
      * Tension

Your body may express what you are feeling with:

      * Trouble relaxing
      * Trouble getting comfortable
      * Needing to move for no reason
      * Fast breathing
      * Fast heartbeat
      * Shaking
      * Muscle twitches
      * Sweating
      * Trouble sleeping
      * Bad dreams or nightmares
      * Extreme restlessness (called agitation) 

## How to Help Yourself

Think about what worked in the past. What helps when you feel fear or anxiety?
Were you able to do something about it? For example, if the fear or anxiety
started with a pain, did taking pain medicine help?

Use the energy of the feeling to do something, such as:

      * Write down what you are feeling and thinking.
      * Exercise.
      * Talk to someone. 

To help you relax:

      * Breathe slowly and deeply for a few minutes.
      * Listen to music that calms you.
      * Slowly count backward from 100 to 0.
      * Do yoga, qigong, or tai chi.
      * Have someone massage your hands, feet, arms, or back.
      * Pet a cat or dog.
      * Ask someone to read to you. 

To prevent feeling anxious:

      * When you need to rest, tell visitors to come another time.
      * Take your medicine as it was prescribed.
      * DO NOT drink alcohol.
      * DO NOT have drinks with caffeine. 

Many people find they can prevent or manage these feelings if they can talk to
someone they trust.

      * Talk to a friend or loved one who is willing to listen.
      * When you see your doctor or nurse, talk about your fears.
      * If you have worries about money or other issues, or just want to talk about your feelings, ask to see a social worker. 

Your health care provider can give you medicine to help with these feelings.
Do not be afraid to use it the way it is prescribed. If you have questions or
concerns about the medicine, ask your provider or pharmacist.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider when you have:

      * Feelings that may be causing your anxiety (such as fear of dying or worrying about money)
      * Concerns about your illness
      * Problems with family or friend relationships
      * Spiritual concerns
      * Signs and symptoms that your anxiety is changing or getting worse 

## Alternative Names

End of life care - fear and anxiety; Hospice care - fear and anxiety

## References

Maytal G, Hutner LAE, Cassem NH, Brendel RW. Psychiatric and ethical aspects
of care at the end of life. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF,
eds. _Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 60.

Rakel RE, Trinh TH. Care of the dying patient. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 5.

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Anxiety
      * Palliative Care

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

