Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000684.htm    
                                Description: Guillain-BarrÃ© syndrome (GBS) is a serious health problem that occurs when the body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Guillain-BarrÃ© syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000684.htm

# Guillain-BarrÃ© syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Guillain-BarrÃ© syndrome (GBS) is a serious health problem that occurs when
the body's defense (immune) system mistakenly attacks part of the peripheral
nervous system. This leads to nerve inflammation that causes muscle weakness
or paralysis and other symptoms.

## Causes

The exact cause of GBS is unknown. It is thought that GBS is an autoimmune
disorder. With an autoimmune disorder, the body's immune system attacks itself
by mistake. GBS can occur at any age. It is most common in people between ages
30 and 50.

GBS may occur with infections from viruses or bacteria, such as:

      * Influenza
      * Some gastrointestinal illnesses
      * Mycoplasma pneumonia
      * HIV, the virus that causes HIV/AIDS (very rare)
      * Herpes simplex
      * Mononucleosis

GBS may also occur with other medical conditions, such as:

      * Systemic lupus erythematosus
      * Hodgkin disease
      * After surgery 

GBS damages parts of nerves. This nerve damage causes tingling, muscle
weakness, loss of balance, and paralysis. GBS most often affects the nerve
covering (myelin sheath). This damage is called demyelination. It causes nerve
signals to move more slowly. Damage to other parts of the nerve can cause the
nerve to stop working.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of GBS can get worse quickly. It may take only a few hours for the
most severe symptoms to appear. But weakness that increases over several days
is also common.

Muscle weakness or loss of muscle function (paralysis) affects both sides of
the body. In most cases, the muscle weakness starts in the legs and spreads to
the arms. This is called ascending paralysis.

If the inflammation affects the nerves of the chest and diaphragm (the large
muscle under your lungs that helps you breathe) and those muscles are weak,
you may need breathing assistance.

Other typical signs and symptoms of GBS include:

      * Loss of tendon reflexes in the arms and legs
      * Tingling or numbness (mild loss of sensation)
      * Muscle tenderness or pain (may be a cramp-like pain)
      * Uncoordinated movement (cannot walk without help)
      * Low blood pressure or poor blood pressure control
      * Abnormal heart rate 

Other symptoms may include:

      * Blurred vision and double vision
      * Clumsiness and falling
      * Difficulty moving face muscles
      * Muscle contractions
      * Feeling the heart beat (palpitations) 

Emergency symptoms (seek medical help right away):

      * Breathing temporarily stops
      * Cannot take a deep breath
      * Difficulty breathing
      * Difficulty swallowing
      * Drooling
      * Fainting
      * Feeling light headed when standing 

## Exams and Tests

A history of increasing muscle weakness and paralysis may be a sign of GBS,
especially if there was a recent illness.

A medical exam may show muscle weakness. There may also be problems with blood
pressure and heart rate. These are functions that are controlled automatically
by the nervous system. The exam may also show that reflexes such as the ankle
or knee jerk are decreased or missing.

There may be signs of decreased breathing caused by paralysis of the breathing
muscles.

The following tests may be done:

      * Cerebrospinal fluid sample (spinal tap)
      * ECG to check the electrical activity in the heart
      * Electromyography (EMG) to test the electrical activity in muscles
      * Nerve conduction velocity test to test how fast electrical signals move through a nerve
      * Pulmonary function tests to measure breathing and how well the lungs are functioning

## Treatment

There is no cure for GBS. Treatment is aimed at reducing symptoms, treating
complications, and speeding up recovery.

In the early stages of the illness, a treatment called apheresis or
plasmapheresis may be given. It involves removing or blocking the proteins,
called antibodies, which attack the nerve cells. Another treatment is
intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg). Both treatments lead to faster improvement,
and both are equally effective. But there is no advantage to using both
treatments at the same time. Other treatments help reduce inflammation.

When symptoms are severe, treatment in the hospital will be needed. Breathing
support will likely be given.

Other treatments in the hospital focus on preventing complications. These may
include:

      * Blood thinners to prevent blood clots
      * Breathing support or a breathing tube and ventilator, if the diaphragm is weak
      * Pain medicines or other medicines to treat pain
      * Proper body positioning or a feeding tube to prevent choking during feeding, if the muscles used for swallowing are weak
      * Physical therapy to help keep joints and muscles healthy 

## Support Groups

These resources may provide more information about GBS:

      * Guillain-BarrÃ© Syndrome Foundation International -- www.gbs-cidp.org
      * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/guillain-barre-syndrome

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Recovery can take weeks, months, or years. Most people survive and recover
completely. In some people, mild weakness may persist. The outcome is likely
to be good when the symptoms go away within 3 weeks after they first started.

Possible complications of GBS include:

      * Breathing difficulty (respiratory failure)
      * Shortening of tissues in the joints (contractures) or other deformities
      * Blood clots (deep vein thrombosis) that form when the person with GBS is inactive or has to stay in bed
      * Increased risk of infections
      * Low or unstable blood pressure
      * Paralysis that is permanent
      * Pneumonia
      * Skin damage (ulcers)
      * Breathing food or fluids into the lungs 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Seek medical help right away if you have any of these symptoms:

      * Trouble taking a deep breath
      * Decreased feeling (sensation)
      * Difficulty breathing
      * Difficulty swallowing
      * Fainting
      * Loss of strength in the legs that gets worse over time 

## Alternative Names

GBS; Landry-Guillain-BarrÃ© syndrome; Acute idiopathic polyneuritis;
Infectious polyneuritis; Acute inflammatory polyneuropathy; Acute inflammatory
demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy; Ascending paralysis

## Images

      * ![Superficial anterior muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9678t.jpg)Superficial anterior muscles
      * ![Nerve supply to the pelvis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19248t.jpg)Nerve supply to the pelvis
      * ![Brain and nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8680t.jpg)Brain and nervous system

## References

Chang CWJ. Myasthenia gravis and Guillain-BarrÃ© syndrome. In: Parrillo JE,
Dellinger RP, eds. _Critical Care Medicine: Principles of Diagnosis and
Management in the Adult_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 61.

Katirji B. Disorders of peripheral nerves. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 107.

## Review Date 5/21/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Guillain-Barre Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Guillain-
BarreSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Guillain-Barre Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

