Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000911.htm    
                                Description: Fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) is growth, mental, and physical problems that may occur in a baby when a mother drinks alcohol during pregnancy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fetal alcohol syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000911.htm

# Fetal alcohol syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) is growth, mental, and physical problems that may
occur in a baby when a mother drinks alcohol during pregnancy.

## Causes

Using alcohol during pregnancy can cause the same risks as using alcohol in
general. But it poses extra risks to the unborn baby. When a pregnant woman
drinks alcohol, it easily passes across the placenta to the fetus. Because of
this, drinking alcohol can harm the unborn baby.

There is no "safe" level of alcohol use during pregnancy. Larger amounts of
alcohol appear to increase the problems. Binge drinking is more harmful than
drinking small amounts of alcohol.

Timing of alcohol use during pregnancy is also important. Drinking alcohol is
likely most harmful during the first 3 months of pregnancy. But drinking
alcohol any time during pregnancy can be harmful.

## Symptoms

A baby with FAS may have the following symptoms:

      * Poor growth while the baby is in the womb and after birth
      * Decreased muscle tone and poor coordination
      * Delayed developmental milestones
      * Vision difficulties, such as nearsightedness (myopia)
      * Hyperactivity
      * Anxiety
      * Extreme nervousness
      * Short attention span

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam of the baby may show a heart murmur or other heart problems. A
common defect is a hole in the wall that separates the right and left chambers
of the heart.

There also may be problems with the face and bones. These may include:

      * Narrow and small eyes
      * Small head and upper jaw
      * Smooth groove in the upper lip, smooth and thin upper lip
      * Deformed ears
      * Flat, short, and upturned nose
      * Ptosis (drooping of upper eyelids)

Tests that may done include:

      * Blood alcohol level in pregnant women who show signs of being drunk (intoxicated)
      * Brain imaging studies (CT or MRI) after the child is born
      * Pregnancy ultrasound

## Treatment

Women who are pregnant or who are trying to get pregnant should not drink any
amount of alcohol. Pregnant women with alcohol use disorder should join a
rehabilitation program and be checked closely by a health care provider
throughout pregnancy.

## Support Groups

The following groups can provide more information and resources:

      * Alcoholics Anonymous -- www.aa.org
      * Al-Anon Family Groups -- al-anon.org
      * National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism -- www.niaaa.nih.gov
      * Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration -- www.samhsa.gov

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome for infants with FAS varies. Almost none of these babies have
normal brain development.

Infants and children with FAS have many different problems, which can be
difficult to manage. Children do best if they are diagnosed early and referred
to a team of providers who can work on educational and behavioral strategies
that fit the child's needs.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if you are drinking alcohol
regularly or heavily, and are finding it difficult to cut back or stop. Also,
call if you are drinking alcohol in any amount while you are pregnant or
trying to get pregnant.

## Prevention

Avoiding alcohol during pregnancy prevents FAS. Counseling can help women who
have already had a child with FAS.

Sexually active women who drink heavily should use birth control and control
their drinking behaviors, or stop using alcohol before trying to get pregnant.

## Alternative Names

Alcohol in pregnancy; Alcohol-related birth defects; Fetal alcohol effects;
FAS; Fetal alcohol spectrum disorders; Alcohol abuse - fetal alcohol;
Alcoholism - fetal alcohol

## Images

      * ![Single palmar crease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17226t.jpg)Single palmar crease
      * ![Fetal alcohol syndrome](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/21723t.jpg)Fetal alcohol syndrome

## References

Hoyme HE, Kalberg WO, Elliott AJ, et al. Updated clinical guidelines for
diagnosing fetal alcohol spectrum disorders. _Pediatrics_. 2016;138(2). pii:
e20154256Â PMID: 27464676Â www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27464676.

Niebyl JR, Weber RJ, Briggs GG. Drugs and environmental agents in pregnancy
and lactation: Teratology, epidemiology. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL,
et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 8.

Smith RP. Fetal alcohol syndrome. In: Smith RP, ed. _Netter's Obstetrics and
Gynecology_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 225.

## Review Date 8/5/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Fetal Alcohol Spectrum
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FetalAlcoholSpectrumDisorders_thumb.jpg)Fetal
Alcohol Spectrum Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

