Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002009.htm    
                                Description: At 9 months, a typical infant will have certain skills and reach growth markers called milestones.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Developmental milestones record - 9 months

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002009.htm

# Developmental milestones record - 9 months

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

At 9 months, a typical infant will have certain skills and reach growth
markers called milestones.

## Information

All children develop a little differently. If you are concerned about your
child's development, talk to your child's health care provider.

PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS AND MOTOR SKILLS

A 9-month-old has most often reached the following milestones:

      * Gains weight at a slower rate, about 15 grams (half an ounce) per day, 1 pound (450 grams) per month
      * Increases in length by 1.5 centimeters (a little over one-half inch) per month
      * Bowel and bladder become more regular
      * Puts hands forward when the head is pointed to the ground (parachute reflex) to protect self from falling
      * Is able to crawl
      * Sits for long periods
      * Pulls self to standing position
      * Reaches for objects while sitting
      * Bangs objects together
      * Can grasp objects between the tip of the thumb and index finger
      * Feeds self with fingers
      * Throws or shakes objects

SENSORY AND COGNITIVE SKILLS

The 9-month-old typically:

      * Babbles
      * Has separation anxiety and may cling to parents
      * Is developing depth perception
      * Understands that objects continue to exist, even when they are not seen (object constancy)
      * Responds to simple commands
      * Responds to name
      * Understands the meaning of "no"
      * Imitates speech sounds
      * May be afraid of being left alone
      * Plays interactive games, such as peek-a-boo and pat-a-cake
      * Waves goodbye

PLAY

To help the 9-month-old develop:

      * Provide picture books.
      * Provide different stimuli by going to the mall to see people, or to the zoo to see animals.
      * Build vocabulary by reading and naming people and objects in the environment.
      * Teach hot and cold through play.
      * Provide large toys that can be pushed to encourage walking.
      * Sing songs together.
      * Avoid television time until age 2.
      * Try using a transition object to help decrease separation anxiety.

## Alternative Names

Growth milestones for children - 9 months; Childhood growth milestones - 9
months; Normal childhood growth milestones - 9 months; Well child - 9 months

## References

American Academy of Pediatrics website. Recommendations for preventive
pediatric health care. www.aap.org/en-us/Documents/periodicity_schedule.pdf.
Updated October 2015. Accessed January 29, 2019.

Feigelman S. The first year. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 10.

Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM. Normal development. In: Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM,
eds. _Nelson Essentials of Pediatrics_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 7.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Infant and Newborn
Development](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfantandNewbornDevelopment_thumb.jpg)Infant
and Newborn Development _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

