Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002007.htm    
                                Description: Typical 4-month-old infants are expected to develop certain physical and mental skills. These skills are called milestones.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Developmental milestones record - 4 months

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002007.htm

# Developmental milestones record - 4 months

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Typical 4-month-old infants are expected to develop certain physical and
mental skills. These skills are called milestones.

## Information

All children develop a little differently. If you are concerned about your
child's development, talk to your child's health care provider.

PHYSICAL AND MOTOR SKILLS

The typical 4-month-old baby should:

      * Slow in weight gain to about 20 grams (almost two thirdsÂ of an ounce) per day
      * Weigh 2 times more than their birth weight
      * Have almost no head droop while in a sitting position
      * Be able to sit straight if propped up
      * Raise head 90 degrees when placed on stomach
      * Be able to roll from front to back
      * Hold and let go of an object
      * Play with a rattle when it's placed in their hands, but won't be able to pick it up if dropped
      * Be able to grasp a rattle with both hands
      * Be able to place objects in the mouth
      * Sleep 9 to 10 hours at night with 2 naps during the day (total of 14 to 16 hours per day)

SENSORY AND COGNITIVE SKILLS

A 4-month-old baby is expected to:

      * Have well-established close vision
      * Increase eye contact with parents and others
      * Have beginning hand-eye coordination
      * Be able to coo
      * Be able to laugh out loud
      * Anticipate feeding when able to see a bottle (if bottle-fed)
      * Begin to show memory
      * Demand attention by fussing
      * Recognize parent's voice or touch

PLAY

You can encourage development through play:

      * Place the baby in front of a mirror.
      * Provide bright-colored toys to hold.
      * Repeat sounds the infant makes.
      * Help the infant roll over.
      * Use an infant swing at the park if the baby has head control.
      * Play on the stomach (tummy time).

## Alternative Names

Normal childhood growth milestones - 4 months; Childhood growth milestones - 4
months; Growth milestones for children - 4 months; Well child - 4 months

## References

American Academy of Pediatrics website. Recommendations for preventive
pediatric health care. www.aap.org/en-us/Documents/periodicity_schedule.pdf.
Updated February 2017. Accessed November 14, 2018.

Feigelman S. The first year. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 10.

Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM. Normal development. In: Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM,
eds. _Nelson Essentials of Pediatrics_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 7.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Infant and Newborn
Development](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfantandNewbornDevelopment_thumb.jpg)Infant
and Newborn Development _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

