Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000805.htm    
                                Description: Insomnia is trouble falling asleep, staying asleep through the night, or waking up too early in the morning.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Insomnia - overview

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000805.htm

# Insomnia - overview

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Insomnia is trouble falling asleep, staying asleep through the night, or
waking up too early in the morning.

Episodes of insomnia may come and go or be long-lasting.

The quality of your sleep is as important as how much sleep you get.

## Causes

Sleep habits we learned as children may affect our sleep behaviors as adults.
Poor sleep or lifestyle habits that may cause insomnia or make it worse
include:

      * Going to bed at a different time each night
      * Daytime napping
      * Poor sleeping environment, such as too much noise or light
      * Spending too much time in bed while awake
      * Working evenings or night shifts
      * Not getting enough exercise
      * Using the television, computer, or a mobile device in bed 

The use of some medicines and drugs may also affect sleep, including:

      * Alcohol or other drugs
      * Heavy smoking
      * Too much caffeine throughout the day or drinking caffeine late in the day
      * Getting used to certain types of sleep medicines
      * Some cold medicines and diet pills
      * Other medicines, herbs, or supplements 

Physical, social, and mental health issues can affect sleep patterns,
including:

      * Bipolar disorder.
      * Feeling sad or depressed. (Often, insomnia is the symptom that causes people with depression to seek medical help.)
      * Stress and anxiety, whether it is short-term or long-term. For some people, the stress caused by insomnia makes it even harder to fall asleep. 

Health problems may also lead to problems sleeping and insomnia:

      * Pregnancy
      * Physical pain or discomfort.
      * Waking up at night to use the bathroom, common in men with enlarged prostate
      * Sleep apnea

With age, sleep patterns tend to change. Many people find that aging causes
them to have a harder time falling asleep, and that they wake up more often.

## Symptoms

The most common complaints or symptoms in people with insomnia are:

      * Trouble falling asleep on most nights
      * Feeling tired during the day or falling asleep during the day
      * Not feeling refreshed when you wake up
      * Waking up several times during sleep 

People who have insomnia are sometimes consumed by the thought of getting
enough sleep. But the more they try to sleep, the more frustrated and upset
they get, and the harder sleep becomes.

Lack of restful sleep can:

      * Make you tired and unfocused, so it is hard to do daily activities.
      * Put you at risk for auto accidents. If you are driving and feel sleepy, pull over and take a break. 

## Exams and Tests

YourÂ health care providerÂ will do a physical exam and ask about your current
medications, drug use, and medical history. Usually, these are the only
methods needed to diagnose insomnia.

## Treatment

Not getting 8 hours of sleep every night does not mean your health is at risk.
Different people have different sleep needs. Some people do fine on 6 hours of
sleep a night. Others only do well if they get 10 to 11 hours of sleep a
night.

Treatment often begins by reviewing any drugs or health problems that may be
causing or worsen insomnia, such as:

      * Enlarged prostate gland, causing men to wake up at night
      * Pain or discomfort from muscle, joint, or nerve disorders 

You should also think about lifestyle and sleep habits that may affect your
sleep. This is called sleep hygiene. Making some changes in your sleep habits
may improve or solve your insomnia.

Some people may need medicines to help with sleep for a short period of time.
But in the long run, making changes in your lifestyle and sleep habits is the
best treatment for problems with falling and staying asleep.

      * Most over-the-counter (OTC) sleeping pills contain antihistamines. These medicines are commonly used to treat allergies. Your body quicklyÂ becomes used to them.
      * Sleep medicines called hypnotics can be prescribed by yourÂ provider to help reduce the time it takes you to fall asleep. Most of these can become habit-forming.
      * Medicines used to treat anxiety or depression can also help with sleep

Different methods of talk therapy may help you gain control over anxiety or
depression.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people are able to sleep by practicing good sleep hygiene.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call yourÂ provider if insomnia has become a problem.

## Alternative Names

Sleep disorder - insomnia; Sleep issues; Difficulty falling asleep; Sleep
hygiene - insomnia

## References

Chokdroverty S, Avidan AY. Sleep and its disorders. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 102.

Morin CM, Benca R. Chronic insomnia. _Lancet._ Â 2012;379(9821):1129-1141.Â
PMID: 22265700 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22265700.

Schutte-Rodin S, Broch L, Buysse D, Dorsey C, Sateia M. Clinical guideline for
the evaluation and management of chronic insomnia in adults. _J Clin Sleep
Med._ 2008;4(5):487-504. PMID: 18853708 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18853708.

Vaughn BV. Disorders of sleep. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 405.

Wakefield TL, Lam DJ, Ishman SL. Sleep apnea and sleep disorders. In: Flint
PW, Haughey BH, Lund LJ, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 18.

## Review Date 3/26/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Insomnio](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Insomnia_thumb.jpg)Insomnia _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

