Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001027.htm    
                                Description: Retinal detachment is a separation of the light-sensitive membrane (retina) in the back of the eye from its supporting layers.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Retinal detachment

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001027.htm

# Retinal detachment

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Retinal detachment is a separation of the light-sensitive membrane (retina) in
the back of the eye from its supporting layers.

## Causes

The retina is the clear tissue that lines the inside of the back of the eye.
Light rays that enter the eye are focused by the cornea and lens into images
that are formed on the retina.Â

      * The most common type of retinal detachment is often due to a tear or hole in the retina. Eye fluid may leak through this opening. This causes the retina to separate from the underlying tissues, much like a bubble under wallpaper. This is most often caused by a condition called posterior vitreous detachment.Â It canÂ also be caused by trauma and very bad nearsightedness. A family history of retinal detachment also increases your risk.
      * Another type of retinal detachment is called tractional detachment. ThisÂ type occursÂ in people who have uncontrolled diabetes, had retinal surgery before, or have long-term (chronic) inflammation. 

When the retina becomes detached, bleeding fromÂ nearby blood vesselsÂ can
cloud the inside of the eye so that you may not see clearly or at all. Central
vision becomes severely affected if the maculaÂ becomes detached. The macula
isÂ the part of the retina responsible for sharp, detailed vision.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of detached retina can include:

      * Bright flashes of light, especially in peripheral vision.
      * Blurred vision.
      * New floaters in the eyeÂ that appear suddenly.
      * Shadowing or decreased peripheral vision that seems like a curtain or shade across your vision.

There is usually no pain in or around the eye.

## Exams and Tests

The ophthalmologist (eye doctor) will examine your eyes. Tests will be done to
check the retina and pupil:

      * Using special dye and camera to look at blood flow in the retina (fluorescein angiography)
      * Checking pressure inside the eye (tonometry)Â 
      * Examining the back part of the eye, including the retina (ophthalmoscopy)
      * Checking eyeglass prescription (refraction test)
      * Checking color vision
      * Checking the smallest letters that can be read (visual acuity)
      * Checking structures at the front of the eye (slit-lamp examination)Â 
      * Ultrasound of the eye

## Treatment

Most people with a retinal detachment need surgery. Surgery may be doneÂ right
awayÂ or within a short time after diagnosis. Some types of surgery can be
done in your doctor's office.

      * Lasers may be used to seal tears or holes in the retina before a retinal detachment occurs.
      * If you have a small detachment, the doctor may place a gas bubble in the eye. This is called pneumatic retinopexy. It helps the retina float back into place. The hole is sealed with a laser.

Severe detachments require surgery in a hospital.Â These procedures include:

      * Scleral buckle to gently push the eye wall up against the retina
      * Vitrectomy to remove gel or scar tissue pulling on the retina, used for the largest tears and detachments

Tractional retinal detachments may be watched for a while before surgery. If
surgery is needed, a vitrectomy is usually done.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you do after a retinal detachment depends on the location and extent
of the detachment and early treatment. If the macula was not damaged, the
outlook with treatment can be excellent.

Successful repair of the retina does not always fully restore vision.

Some detachments cannot be repaired.

## Possible Complications

A retinal detachment causes loss of vision. Surgery to repair it may help
restore some or all of your vision.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

A retinal detachment is an urgent problem that requires medical attention
within 24 hours of the first symptoms of new flashes of light and floaters.

## Prevention

Use protective eye wear to prevent eye trauma. Control your blood sugar
carefully if you have diabetes. See your eye care specialist once a year. You
may need more frequent visits if you have risk factors for retinal detachment.
Be alert to symptoms of new flashes of light and floaters.

## Alternative Names

Detached retina

## Images

      * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye
      * ![Slit-lamp exam](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1140t.jpg)Slit-lamp exam

## References

American Academy of Ophthalmology website. Preferred Practice Pattern
Guidelines. Posterior vitreous detachment, retinal breaks, and lattice
degeneration PPP 2019. www.aao.org/preferred-practice-pattern/posterior-
vitreous-detachment-retinal-breaks-latti. Updated October 2019. Accessed
January 13, 2020.

Salmon JF. Retinal detachment. In: Salmon JF, ed. _Kanski's Clinical
Ophthalmology_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 16.

Wickham L, Aylward GW. Optimal procedures for retinal detachment repair. In:
Schachat AP, Sadda SVR, Hinton DR, Wilkinson CP, Wiedemann P, eds. _Ryan's
Retina_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 109.

## Review Date 8/8/2019

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update
on 01-13-2020.

![Desprendimiento de
retina](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RetinalDetachment_thumb.jpg)Retinal
Detachment _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

