Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002960.htm    
                                Description: Retinal detachment repair is eye surgery to place a retina back into its normal position. The retina is the light-sensitive tissue in the back of the eye. Detachment means that it has pulled away from    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Retinal detachment repair

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002960.htm

# Retinal detachment repair

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Retinal detachment repair is eye surgery to place a retina back into its
normal position. The retina is the light-sensitive tissue in the back of the
eye. Detachment means that it has pulled away from the layers of tissue around
it.

This article describes the repair of rhegmatogenous retinal detachments. These
occur due to a hole or tear in the retina.

## Description

Most retinal detachment repair operations are urgent. If holes or tears in the
retina are found before the retina detaches, the eye doctor can close the
holes using a laser. This procedure is most often done in the health care
provider's office.

If the retina has just started to detach, a procedure called pneumatic
retinopexy may be done to repair it.

      * Pneumatic retinopexy (gas bubble placement) is most often an office procedure.
      * The eye doctor injects a bubble of gas into the eye.
      * You are then positioned so the gas bubble floats up against the hole in the retina and pushes it back into place.
      * The doctor will use a laser to permanently seal the hole.

Severe detachments need more advanced surgery. The following procedures are
done in a hospital or outpatient surgery center:

      * The scleral buckle method indents the wall of the eye inward so that it meets the hole in the retina. Scleral buckling can be done using numbing medicine while you are awake (local anesthesia) or when you are asleep and pain free (general anesthesia).
      * The vitrectomy procedure uses very small devices inside the eye to release tension on the retina. This allows the retina to move back into its proper position. Most vitrectomies are done with numbing medicine while you are awake.

In complex cases, both procedures may be done at the same time.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Retinal detachments DO NOT get better without treatment. Repair is needed to
prevent permanent vision loss.

How quickly the surgery needs to be done depends on the location and extent of
the detachment. If possible, the surgery should be done the same day if the
detachment has not affected the central vision area (the macula). This can
help prevent further detachment of the retina. It also will increase the
chance of preserving good vision.

If the macula detaches, it is too late to restore normal vision. Surgery can
still be done to prevent total blindness. In these cases, eye doctors can wait
a week to 10 days to schedule surgery.

## Risks

Risks for retinal detachment surgery include:

      * Bleeding
      * Detachment that is not completely fixed (may require more surgeries)
      * Increase in eye pressure (elevated intraocular pressure)
      * Infection

General anesthesia may be needed. The risks for any anesthesia are:

      * Reactions to medicines
      * Problems breathing

You may not recover full vision.

## After the Procedure

The chances of successful reattachment of the retina depend on the number of
holes, their size, and whether there is scar tissue in the area.

In most cases, the procedures DO NOT require an overnight hospital stay. You
may need to limit your physical activity for some time.

If the retina is repaired using the gas bubble procedure, you need to keep
your head face down or turned to one side for several days or weeks. It is
important to maintain this position so the gas bubble pushes the retina into
place.

People with a gas bubble in the eye may not fly or go to high altitudes until
the gas bubble dissolves. This most often happens within a few weeks.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most of the time, the retina can be reattached with one operation. However,
some people will need several surgeries. More than 9 out of 10 detachments can
be repaired. Failure to repair the retina always results in loss of vision to
some degree.

When a detachment occurs, the photoreceptors (rods and cones) start to
degenerate. The sooner the detachment is repaired, the sooner the rods and
cones will begin to recover. However, once the retina has detached, the
photoreceptors may never recover completely.

After surgery, the quality of vision depends on where the detachment occurred,
and the cause:

      * If the central area of vision (macula) was not involved, vision will usually be very good.
      * If the macula was involved for less than 1 week, vision will usually be improved, but not to 20/20 (normal).
      * If the macula was detached for a long time, some vision will return, but it will be very impaired. Often, it will be less than 20/200, the limit for legal blindness. 

## Alternative Names

Scleral buckling; Vitrectomy; Pneumatic retinopexy; Laser retinopexy;
Rhegmatogenous retinal detachment repair

## Images

      * ![Detached retina](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9931t.jpg)Detached retina
      * ![Retinal detachment repair - normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/14026t.jpg)Retinal detachment repair - series

## References

Guluma K, Lee JE. Ophthalmology. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 61.

Todorich B, Faia LJ, Williams GA. Scleral buckling surgery. In: Yanoff M,
Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap
6.11.

Wickham L, Aylward GW. Optimal procedures for retinal detachment repair. In:
Schachat AP, Sadda SVR, Hinton DR, Wilkinson CP, Wiedemann P. _Ryan's Retina_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 109.

Yanoff M, Cameron D. Diseases of the visual system. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 423.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Desprendimiento de
retina](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RetinalDetachment_thumb.jpg)Retinal
Detachment _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

