Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002017.htm    
                                Description: School-age child development describes the expected physical, emotional, and mental abilities of children ages 6 to 12.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

School-age children development

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002017.htm

# School-age children development

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

School-age child development describes the expected physical, emotional, and
mental abilities of children ages 6 to 12.

## Information

PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT

School-age children most often have smooth and strong motor skills. However,
their coordination (especially eye-hand), endurance, balance, and physical
abilities vary.

Fine motor skills may also vary widely. These skills can affect a child's
ability to write neatly, dress appropriately, and perform certain chores, such
as making beds or doing dishes.

There will be big differences in height, weight, and build among children of
this age range. It is important to remember that genetic background, as well
as nutrition and exercise, may affect a child's growth.

A sense of body image begins developing around age 6. Sedentary habits in
school-age children are linked to a risk for obesity and heart disease in
adults. Children in this age group should get 1 hour of physical activity per
day.

There can also be a big difference in the age at which children begin to
develop secondary sexual characteristics. For girls, secondary sex
characteristics include:

      * Breast development
      * Underarm and pubic hair growth

For boys, they include:

      * Growth of underarm, chest, and pubic hair
      * Growth of testicles and penis

SCHOOL

By age 5, most children are ready to start learning in a school setting. The
first few years focus on learning the fundamentals.

In third grade, the focus becomes more complex. Reading becomes more about the
content than identifying letters and words.

An ability to pay attention is important for success both at school and at
home. A 6-year-old should be able to focus on a task for at least 15 minutes.
By age 9, a child should be able to focus attention for about an hour.

It is important for the child to learn how to deal with failure or frustration
without losing self-esteem. There are many causes of school failure,
including:

      * Learning disabilities, such a reading disability
      * Stressors, such as bullying
      * Mental health issues, such as anxiety or depression

If you suspect any of these in your child, talk to your child's teacher or
health care provider.

LANGUAGE DEVELOPMENT

Early school-age children should be able to use simple, but complete,
sentences that contain an average of 5 to 7 words. As the child goes through
the elementary school years, grammar and pronunciation become normal. Children
use more complex sentences as they grow.

Language delays may be due to hearing or intelligence problems. In addition,
children who are unable to express themselves well may be more likely to have
aggressive behavior or temper tantrums.

A 6-year-old child normally can follow a series of 3 commands in a row. By age
10, most children can follow 5 commands in a row. Children who have a problem
in this area may try to cover it up with backtalk or clowning around. They
will rarely ask for help because they are afraid of being teased.

BEHAVIOR

Frequent physical complaints (such as sore throats, tummy aches, or arm or leg
pain) may simply be due to a child's increased body awareness. Although there
is often no physical evidence for such complaints, the complaints should be
investigated to rule out possible health conditions. This will also assure the
child that the parent is concerned about their well-being.

Peer acceptance becomes more important during the school-age years. Children
may take part in certain behaviors to be part of "the group." Talking about
these behaviors with your child will allow the child to feel accepted in the
group, without crossing the boundaries of the family's behavior standards.

Friendships at this age tend to be mainly with members of the same sex. In
fact, younger school-age children often talk about members of the opposite sex
as being "strange" or "awful." Children become less negative about the
opposite sex as they get closer to adolescence.

Lying, cheating, and stealing are all examples of behaviors that school-age
children may "try on" as they learn how to negotiate the expectations and
rules placed on them by family, friends, school, and society. Parents should
deal with these behaviors in private with their child (so that the child's
friends don't tease them). Parents should show forgiveness, and punish in a
way that is related to the behavior.

It is important for the child to learn how to deal with failure or frustration
without losing self-esteem.

SAFETY

Safety is important for school-age children.

      * School-age children are highly active. They need physical activity and peer approval, and want to try more daring and adventurous behaviors.
      * Children should be taught to play sports in appropriate, safe, supervised areas, with proper equipment and rules. Bicycles, skateboards, in-line skates, and other types of recreational sports equipment should fit the child. They should be used only while following traffic and pedestrian rules, and while using safety equipment such as knee, elbow, and wrist pads or braces, and helmets. Sports equipment should not be used at night or in extreme weather conditions.
      * Swimming and water safety lessons may help prevent drowning.
      * Safety instruction regarding matches, lighters, barbecues, stoves, and open fires can prevent major burns.
      * Wearing seat belts is the most important way to prevent major injury or death from a motor vehicle accident.

PARENTING TIPS

      * If your child's physical development appears to be outside the norm, talk to your provider.
      * If language skills appear to be lagging, request a speech and language evaluation.
      * Keep close communication with teachers, other school employees, and parents of your child's friends so you are aware of possible problems.
      * Encourage children to express themselves openly and talk about concerns without fear of punishment.
      * While encouraging children to participate in a variety of social and physical experiences, be careful not to over-schedule free time. Free play or simple, quiet time is important so the child does not always feel pushed to perform.
      * Children today are exposed, through the media and their peers, to many issues dealing with violence, sexuality, and substance abuse. Discuss these issues openly with your children to share concerns or correct misconceptions. You may need to set limits to ensure children will be exposed to certain issues only when they are ready.
      * Encourage children to participate in constructive activities such as sports, clubs, arts, music, and scouts. Being inactive at this age increases the risk of lifetime obesity. However, it is important not to over-schedule your child. Try to find a balance between family time, school work, free play, and structured activities.
      * School-age children should participate in family chores, such as setting the table and cleaning up.
      * Limit screen time (television and other media) to 2 hours a day.

## Alternative Names

Well child - ages 6 to 12

## Images

      * ![School age child development](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9870t.jpg)School age child development

## References

American Academy of Pediatrics website. Recommendations for preventive
pediatric health care. www.aap.org/en-us/Documents/periodicity_schedule.pdf.
Updated February 2017. Accessed November 14, 2018.

Feigelman S. Middle childhood. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 13.

Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM. Normal development. In: Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM,
eds. _Nelson Essentials of Pediatrics_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 7.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Child
Development](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildDevelopment_thumb.jpg)Child
Development _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

