Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002002.htm    
                                Description: Developmental milestones are behaviors or physical skills seen in infants and children as they grow and develop. Rolling over, crawling, walking, and talking are all considered milestones. The milestones    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Developmental milestones record

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002002.htm

# Developmental milestones record

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Developmental milestones are behaviors or physical skills seen in infants and
children as they grow and develop. Rolling over, crawling, walking, and
talking are all considered milestones. The milestones are different for each
age range.

There is a normal range in which a child may reach each milestone. For
example, walking may begin as early as 8 months in some children. Others walk
as late as 18 months and it is still considered normal.

One of the reasons for well-child visits to the health care provider in the
early years is to follow your child's development. Most parents also watch for
different milestones. Talk to your child's provider if you have concerns about
your child's development.

Closely watching a "checklist" or calendar of developmental milestones may
trouble parents if their child is not developing normally. At the same time,
milestones can help to identify a child who needs a more detailed check-up.
Research has shown that the sooner the developmental services are started, the
better the outcome. Examples of developmental services include: speech
therapy, physical therapy, and developmental preschool.

Below is a general list of some of the things you might see children doing at
different ages. These are NOT precise guidelines. There are many different
normal paces and patterns of development.

Infant -- birth to 1 year

      * Able to drink from a cup
      * Able to sit alone, without support
      * Babbles
      * Displays social smile
      * Gets first tooth
      * Plays peek-a-boo
      * Pulls self to standing position
      * Rolls over by self
      * Says mama and dada, using terms appropriately
      * Understands "NO" and will stop activity in response
      * Walks while holding on to furniture or other support 

Toddler -- 1 to 3 years

      * Able to feed self neatly, with minimal spilling
      * Able to draw a line (when shown one)
      * Able to run, pivot, and walk backwards
      * Able to say first and last name
      * Able to walk up and down stairs
      * Begins pedaling tricycle
      * Can name pictures of common objects and point to body parts
      * Dresses self with only a little bit of help
      * Imitates speech of others, "echoes" word back
      * Learns to share toys (without adult direction)
      * Learns to take turns (if directed) while playing with other children
      * Masters walking
      * Recognizes and labels colors appropriately
      * Recognizes differences between males and females
      * Uses more words and understands simple commands
      * Uses spoon to feed self 

Preschooler -- 3 to 6 years

      * Able to draw a circle and square
      * Able to draw stick figures with two to three features for people
      * Able to skip
      * Balances better, may begin to ride a bicycle
      * Begins to recognize written words, reading skills start
      * Catches a bounced ball
      * Enjoys doing most things independently, without help
      * Enjoys rhymes and word play
      * Hops on one foot
      * Rides tricycle well
      * Starts school
      * Understands size concepts
      * Understands time concepts 

School-age child -- 6 to 12 years

      * Begins gaining skills for team sports such as soccer, T-ball, or other team sports
      * Begins to lose "baby" teeth and get permanent teeth
      * Girls begin to show growth of armpit and pubic hair, breast development
      * Menarche (first menstrual period) may occur in girls
      * Peer recognition begins to become important
      * Reading skills develop further
      * Routines important for daytime activities
      * Understands and is able to follow several directions in a row 

Adolescent -- 12 to 18 years

      * Adult height, weight, sexual maturity
      * Boys show growth of armpit, chest, and pubic hair; voice changes; and testicles/penis enlarge
      * Girls show growth of armpit and pubic hair; breasts develop; menstrual periods start
      * Peer acceptance and recognition is of vital importance
      * Understands abstract concepts 

Related topics include:

      * Developmental milestones record - 2 months
      * Developmental milestones record - 4 months
      * Developmental milestones record - 6 months
      * Developmental milestones record - 9 months
      * Developmental milestones record - 12 months
      * Developmental milestones record - 18 months
      * Developmental milestones record - 2 years
      * Developmental milestones record - 3 years
      * Developmental milestones record - 4 years
      * Developmental milestones record - 5 years

## Alternative Names

Growth milestones for children; Normal childhood growth milestones; Childhood
growth milestones

## Images

      * ![Developmental growth](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9262t.jpg)Developmental growth

## References

Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW. Recording information.
In: Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW, eds. _Siedel's Guide
to Physical Examination_. 9th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2019:chap 5.

Kimmel SR, Ratliff-Schaub K. Growth and development. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 22.

Lipkin PH. Developmental and behavioral surveillance and screening. In:
Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 28.

## Review Date 3/6/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Child
Development](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildDevelopment_thumb.jpg)Child
Development _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

