Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002015.htm    
                                Description: The typical 4-year-old child will demonstrate certain physical and mental skills. These skills are called developmental milestones.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Developmental milestones record - 4 years

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002015.htm

# Developmental milestones record - 4 years

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The typical 4-year-old child will demonstrate certain physical and mental
skills. These skills are called developmental milestones.

## Information

All children develop a little differently. If you are concerned about your
child's development, talk to your child's health care provider.

PHYSICAL AND MOTOR

During the fourth year, a child typically:

      * Gains weight at the rate of about 6 grams (less than one quarter of an ounce) per day
      * Weighs 40 pounds (18.14 kilograms) and is 40 inches (101.6 centimeters) tall
      * Has 20/20 vision
      * Sleeps 11 to 13 hours at night, most often without a daytime nap
      * Grows to a height that is double the birth length
      * Shows improved balance
      * Hops onÂ one foot without losing balance
      * Throws a ball overhand with coordination
      * Can cut out a picture using scissors
      * May still wet the bed

SENSORY AND COGNITIVE

The typical 4-year-old:

      * Has a vocabulary of more than 1,000 words
      * Easily puts together sentences of 4 or 5 words
      * Can use the past tense
      * Can count to 4
      * Will be curious and ask a lot of questions
      * May use words they do not fully understand
      * May begin using vulgar words
      * Learns and sings simple songs
      * Tries to be very independent
      * May show increased aggressive behavior
      * Talks about personal family matters to others
      * Commonly has imaginary playmates
      * Has an increased understanding of time
      * Is able to tell the difference betweenÂ two objects, based on things like size and weight
      * Lacks moral concepts of right and wrong
      * Rebels if too much is expected of them

PLAY

As the parent of a 4-year-old, you should:

      * Encourage and provide space for physical activity.
      * Show your child how to participate in and follow the rules of sporting activities.
      * Encourage play and sharing with other children.
      * Encourage creative play.
      * Teach your child to do small chores, such as setting the table.
      * Read together.
      * Limit screen time (television and other media) to 2 hours a day of quality programs.
      * Expose your child to different stimuli by visiting local areas of interest.

## Alternative Names

Normal childhood growth milestones - 4 years; Growth milestones for children -
4 years; Childhood growth milestones - 4 years; Well child - 4 years

## References

American Academy of Pediatrics website. Recommendations for preventive
pediatric health care. www.aap.org/en-us/Documents/periodicity_schedule.pdf.
Updated February 2017. Accessed November 14, 2018.

Feigelman S. The preschool years. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 12.

Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM. Normal development. In: Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM,
eds. _Nelson Essentials of Pediatrics_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 7.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Child
Development](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildDevelopment_thumb.jpg)Child
Development _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

