Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001922.htm    
                                Description: Temper tantrums are unpleasant and disruptive behaviors or emotional outbursts. They often occur in response to unmet needs or desires. Tantrums are more likely to occur in younger children or others who    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Temper tantrums

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001922.htm

# Temper tantrums

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Temper tantrums are unpleasant and disruptive behaviors or emotional
outbursts. They often occur in response to unmet needs or desires. Tantrums
are more likely to occur in younger children or others who cannot express
their needs or control their emotions when they are frustrated.

## Information

Temper tantrums or "acting-out" behaviors are natural during early childhood.
It is normal for children to want to be independent as they learn they are
separate people from their parents.

This desire for control often shows up as saying "no" often and having
tantrums. Tantrums are worsened by the fact that the child may not have the
vocabulary to express his or her feelings.

Tantrums usually begin in children 12 to 18 months old. They get worse between
age 2 to 3, then decrease until age 4. After age 4, they rarely occur. Being
tired, hungry, or sick, can make tantrums worse or more frequent.

 **WHEN YOUR CHILD HAS A TANTRUM**

When your child has a temper tantrum, it is important that you stay calm. It
helps to remember that tantrums are normal. They are not your fault. You are
not a bad parent, and your son or daughter is not a bad child. Shouting at or
hitting your child will only make the situation worse. A quiet, peaceful
response and atmosphere, without "giving in" or breaking the rules that you
set, reduces stress and make both of you feel better.

You can also try gentle distraction, switching to activities your child enjoys
or making a funny face. If your child has a tantrum away from home, lead your
child to a quiet place, such as the car or a rest room. Keep your child safe
until the tantrum has ended.

Temper tantrums are an attention-seeking behavior. One strategy to minimize
the length and severity of the tantrum is to ignore the behavior. If your
child is safe and not being destructive, going to another room in the house
may shorten the episode because now the drama has no audience. Your child may
follow and continue the tantrum. If so, do not talk or react until the
behavior stops. Then, calmly discuss the issue and offer alternatives without
giving in to your child's demand.

 **PREVENTING TEMPER TANTRUMS**

Make sure that your child eats and sleeps at their usual times. If your child
no longer takes a nap, ensure that they still have some quiet time. Lying down
for 15 to 20 minutes or resting while you read stories together at regular
times of the day can help prevent tantrums.

Other methods to prevent tantrums include:

      * Use an upbeat tone when asking your child to do something. Make it sound like an invitation, not an order. For example, "If you put your mittens and hat on, we will be able to go to your play group."
      * DO NOT battle over unimportant things like which shoes your child wears or whether they sit in the high-chair or booster seat. Safety is what matters, such as not touching a hot stove, keeping the car seat buckled, and not playing in the street.
      * Offer choices when possible. For example, let your child pick what clothes to wear and what stories to read. A child who feels independent in many areas will be more likely to follow rules when it is a must. DO NOT offer a choice if one does not truly exist. 

**WHEN TO SEEK HELP**

If temper tantrums are getting worse and you do not think you can manage them,
seek the advice of your health care provider. Also get help if you are not
able to control your anger and shouting or if you are worried that you may
react to your child's behavior with physical punishment.

The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that you call your pediatrician
or family physician if:

      * Tantrums get worse after age 4
      * Your child injures himself or herself or others, or destroys property during tantrums
      * Your child hold their breath during tantrums, especially if they faint
      * Your child also has nightmares, reversal of toilet training, headaches, stomachaches, anxiety, refuses to eat or go to bed, or clings to you 

## Alternative Names

Acting-out behaviors

## References

American Academy of Pediatrics website. Top tips for surviving tantrums.
www.healthychildren.org/English/family-life/family-dynamics/communication-
discipline/Pages/Temper-Tantrums.aspx. Updated October 22, 2018. Accessed May
31, 2019.

Walter HJ, DeMaso DR. Disruptive, impulse-control, and conduct disorders. In:
Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 42.

## Review Date 5/17/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Child Behavior
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildBehaviorDisorders_thumb.jpg)Child
Behavior Disorders _Read more_

![Child
Development](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildDevelopment_thumb.jpg)Child
Development _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

