Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002013.htm    
                                Description: The normal social and physical development of children ages 3 to 6 years old includes many milestones.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Preschooler development

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002013.htm

# Preschooler development

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The normal social and physical development of children ages 3 to 6 years old
includes many milestones.

## Information

All children develop a little differently. If you are concerned about your
child's development, talk to your child's health care provider.

PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT

The typical 3- to 6-year-old:

      * Gains about 4 to 5 pounds (1.8 to 2.25 kilograms) per year
      * Grows about 2 to 3 inches (5 to 7.5 centimeters) per year
      * Has all 20 primary teeth by age 3
      * Has 20/20 vision by age 4
      * Sleeps 11 to 13 hours at night, most often without a daytime nap

Gross motor development in the 3- to 6-year-old should include:

      * Becoming more skilled at running, jumping, early throwing, and kicking
      * Catching a bounced ball
      * Pedaling a tricycle (at 3 years); becoming able to steer well at around age 4
      * Hopping onÂ one foot (at around 4 years), and later balancing onÂ one foot for up to 5 seconds
      * Doing a heel-to-toe walk (at around age 5)

Fine motor development milestones at about age 3 should include:

      * Drawing a circle
      * Drawing a person withÂ 3 parts
      * Beginning to use children's blunt-tip scissors
      * Self-dressing (with supervision)

Fine motor development milestones at about age 4 should include:

      * Drawing a square
      * Using scissors, and eventually cutting a straight line
      * Putting on clothes properly
      * Managing a spoon and fork neatly while eating

Fine motor development milestones at about age 5 should include:

      * Spreading with a knife
      * Drawing a triangle

LANGUAGE DEVELOPMENT

The 3-year-old uses:

      * Pronouns and prepositions appropriately
      * Three-word sentences
      * Plural words

The 4-year-old begins to:

      * Understand size relationships
      * Follow a 3-step command
      * Count to 4
      * NameÂ 4 colors
      * Enjoy rhymes and word play

The 5-year-old:

      * Shows early understanding of time concepts
      * Counts to 10
      * Knows telephone number
      * Responds to "why" questions

Stuttering may occur in the normal language development of toddlers ages 3 to
4 years. It occurs because ideas come to mind faster than the child is able to
express them, especially if the child is stressed or excited.

When the child is speaking, give your full, prompt attention. Do not comment
on the stuttering. Consider having the child evaluated by a speech pathologist
if:

      * There are other signs with the stuttering, such as tics, grimacing, or extreme self-consciousness.
      * The stuttering lasts longer than 6 months.

BEHAVIOR

The preschooler learns the social skills needed to play and work with other
children. As time passes, the child is better able to cooperate with a larger
number of peers. Although 4- to 5-year-olds may be able to start playing games
that have rules, the rules are likely to change, often at the whim of the
dominant child.

It is common in a small group of preschoolers to see a dominant child emerge
who tends to boss around the other children without much resistance from them.

It is normal for preschoolers to test their physical, behavioral, and
emotional limits. Having a safe, structured environment in which to explore
and face new challenges is important. However, preschoolers need well-defined
limits.

The child should display initiative, curiosity, the desire to explore, and
enjoyment without feeling guilty or inhibited.

Early morality develops as children want to please their parents and others of
importance. This is commonly known as the "good boy" or "good girl" stage.

Elaborate storytelling may progress into lying. If this is not addressed
during the preschool years, this behavior may continue into the adult years.
Mouthing off or backtalk is most often a way for preschoolers to get attention
and a reaction from an adult.

SAFETY

Safety is very important for preschoolers.

      * Preschoolers are highly mobile and able to quickly get into dangerous situations. Parental supervision at this age is essential, just as it was during the earlier years.
      * Car safety is critical. The preschooler should ALWAYS wear a seatbelt and be in an appropriate car seat when riding in the car. At this age children may ride with other children's parents. It is important to review your rules for car safety with others who may be supervising your child.
      * Falls are a major cause of injury in preschoolers. Climbing to new and adventurous heights, preschoolers may fall off playground equipment, bikes, down stairs, from trees, out of windows, and off roofs. Lock doors that give access to dangerous areas (such as roofs, attic windows, and steep staircases). Have strict rules for the preschooler about areas that are off-limits.
      * Kitchens are a prime area for a preschooler to get burned, either while trying to help cook or coming in contact with appliances that are still hot. Encourage the child to help cook or learn cooking skills with recipes for cold foods. Have other activities for the child to enjoy in a nearby room while you are cooking. Keep the child away from the stove, hot foods, and other appliances.
      * Keep all household products and medicines safely locked out of the reach of preschoolers. Know the number for your local poison control center. The National Poison Control Hotline (1-800-222-1222) can be called from anywhere in the United States. Call if you have any questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

PARENTING TIPS

      * TV or screen time should be limited to 2 hours a day of quality programming.
      * Sex role development is based in the toddler years. It is important for the child to have appropriate role models of both sexes. Single parents should make sure the child has the chance to spend time with a relative or friend who is the opposite sex of the parent. Never be critical about the other parent. When the child has sexual play or exploration with peers, redirect the play and tell the child that it is inappropriate. Do not shame the child. This is a natural curiosity.
      * Because language skills develop quickly in the preschooler, it is important for parents to read to the child and talk with the child often throughout the day.
      * Discipline should give the preschooler chances to make choices and face new challenges while maintaining clear limits. Structure is important for the preschooler. Having a daily routine (including age-appropriate chores) can help a child feel like an important part of the family and enhance self-esteem. The child may need reminders and supervision to finish chores. Recognize and acknowledge when the child behaves, or does a chore correctly or without extra reminders. Take the time to note and reward good behaviors.
      * From age 4 to 5, many children backtalk. Address these behaviors without reacting to the words or attitudes. If the child feels these words will give them power over the parent, the behavior will continue. It is often difficult for parents to stay calm while trying to address the behavior.
      * When a child is starting school, parents should keep in mind that there can be big differences among children ages 5 to 6 in terms of attention span, reading readiness, and fine motor skills. Both the overly anxious parent (concerned about the slower child's abilities) and the overly ambitious parent (pushing skills to make the child more advanced) can harm the child's normal progress in school.

## Alternative Names

Developmental milestones record - 3 to 6 years; Well child - 3 to 6 yearsÂ

## Images

      * ![Preschooler development](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9775t.jpg)Preschooler development

## References

American Academy of Pediatrics website. Recommendations for preventive
pediatric health care. www.aap.org/en-us/Documents/periodicity_schedule.pdf.
Updated February 2017. Accessed November 14, 2018.

Feigelman S. The preschool years. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 12.

Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM. Normal development. In: Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM,
eds. _Nelson Essentials of Pediatrics_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 7.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Child
Development](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildDevelopment_thumb.jpg)Child
Development _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

