Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002422.htm    
                                Description: Iron is a mineral found in every cell of the body. Iron is considered an essential mineral because it is needed to make hemoglobin, a part of blood cells.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Iron in diet

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002422.htm

# Iron in diet

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Iron is a mineral found in every cell of the body. Iron is considered an
essential mineral because it is needed to make hemoglobin, a part of blood
cells.

## Function

The human body needs iron to make the oxygen-carrying proteins hemoglobin and
myoglobin. Hemoglobin is found in red blood cells. Myoglobin is found in
muscles.

## Food Sources

The best sources of iron include:

      * Dried beans
      * Dried fruits
      * Eggs (especially egg yolks)
      * Iron-fortified cereals
      * Liver
      * Lean red meat (especially beef)
      * Oysters
      * Poultry, dark red meat
      * Salmon
      * Tuna
      * Whole grains 

Reasonable amounts of iron are also found in lamb, pork, and shellfish.

Iron from vegetables, fruits, grains, and supplements is harder for the body
to absorb. These sources include:

 **Dried fruits:**

      * Prunes
      * Raisins
      * Apricots 

**Legumes:**

      * Lima beans
      * Soybeans
      * Dried beans and peas
      * Kidney beans 

**Seeds:**

      * Almonds
      * Brazil nuts 

**Vegetables:**

      * Broccoli
      * Spinach
      * Kale
      * Collards
      * Asparagus
      * Dandelion greens 

**Whole grains:**

      * Wheat
      * Millet
      * Oats
      * Brown rice 

If you mix some lean meat, fish, or poultry with beans or dark leafy greens at
a meal, you can improve absorption of vegetable sources of iron up to three
times. Foods rich in vitamin C (such as citrus, strawberries, tomatoes, and
potatoes) also increase iron absorption. Cooking foods in a cast-iron skillet
can also help to increase the amount of iron provided.

Some foods reduce iron absorption. For example, commercial black or pekoe teas
contain substances that bind to dietary iron so it cannot be used by the body.

## Side Effects

LOW IRON LEVEL

The human body stores some iron to replace any that is lost. However, low iron
level over a long period of time can lead to iron deficiency anemia. Symptoms
include lack of energy, shortness of breath, headache, irritability,
dizziness, or weight loss. Physical signs of lack of iron are a pale tongue
and spoon-shaped nails.

Those at risk for low iron level includes:

      * Women who are menstruating, especially if they have heavy periods
      * Women who are pregnant or who have just had a baby
      * Long-distance runners
      * People with any type of bleeding in the intestines (for example, a bleeding ulcer)
      * People who frequently donate blood
      * People with gastrointestinal conditions that make it hard to absorb nutrients from food 

Babies and young children are at risk for low iron level if they do not get
the right foods. Babies moving to solid foods should eat iron-rich foods.
Infants are born with enough iron to last about six months. An infant's extra
iron needs are met by breast milk. Infants that are not breastfed should be
given an iron supplement or iron-fortified infant formula.

Children between age 1 and 4 grow fast. This uses up iron in the body.
Children of this age should be given iron-fortified foods or an iron
supplement.

Milk is a very poor source of iron. Children who drink large quantities of
milk and avoid other foods may develop "milk anemia." Recommended milk intake
is 2 to 3 cups (480 to 720 milliliters) per day for toddlers.

TOO MUCH IRON

The genetic disorder called hemochromatosis affects the body's ability to
control how much iron is absorbed. This leads to too much iron in the body.
Treatment consists of a low-iron diet, no iron supplements, and phlebotomy
(blood removal) on a regular basis.

It is unlikely that a person would take too much iron. However, children can
sometimes develop iron poisoning by swallowing too many iron supplements.
Symptoms of iron poisoning include:

      * Fatigue
      * Anorexia
      * Dizziness
      * Nausea
      * Vomiting
      * Headache
      * Weight loss
      * Shortness of breath
      * Grayish color to the skin 

## Recommendations

The Food and Nutrition Board at the Institute of Medicine recommends the
following:

Infants and children

      * Younger than 6 months: 0.27 milligrams per day (mg/day)*
      * 7 months to 1 year: 11 mg/day
      * 1 to 3 years: 7 mg/day*
      * 4 to 8 years: 10 mg/day 

*AI or Adequate Intake

Males

      * 9 to 13 years: 8 mg/day
      * 14 to 18 years: 11 mg/day
      * Age 19 and older: 8 mg/day 

Females

      * 9 to 13 years: 8 mg/day
      * 14 to 18 years: 15 mg/day
      * 19 to 50 years: 18 mg/day
      * 51 and older: 8 mg/day
      * Pregnant women of all ages: 27 mg/day
      * Lactating women 19 to 30 years: 9 mg/day (age 14 to 18: 10 mg/day)

Women who are pregnant or producing breast milk may need different amounts of
iron. Ask your health care provider what is right for you.

## Alternative Names

Diet - iron; Ferric acid; Ferrous acid; Ferritin

## Images

      * ![Iron supplements](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9483t.jpg)Iron supplements

## References

Mason JB. Vitamins, trace minerals, and other micronutrients. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 218.

Maqbool A, Parks EP, Shaikhkhalil A, Panganiban J, Mitchell JA, Stallings VA.
Nutritional requirements. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 55.

## Review Date 2/2/2019

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CNSC, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hierro en la dieta](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Iron_thumb.jpg)Iron _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

