Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002659.htm    
                                Description: Iron is a mineral found in many over-the-counter supplements. Iron overdose occurs when someone takes more than the normal or recommended amount of this mineral. This can be by accident or on purpose.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Iron overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002659.htm

# Iron overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Iron is a mineral found in many over-the-counter supplements. Iron overdose
occurs when someone takes more than the normal or recommended amount of this
mineral. This can be by accident or on purpose.

Iron overdose is especially dangerous for children. A severe overdose can
happen if a child eats adult multivitamins, such as prenatal vitamins. If the
child eats too many pediatric multivitamins, the effect is usually minor.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual overdose. If you or someone you are with has an overdose, call your
local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Iron can be harmful in large amounts.

## Where Found

Iron is an ingredient in many mineral and vitamin supplements. Iron
supplements are also sold by themselves. Types include:

      * Ferrous sulfate (Feosol, Slow Fe)
      * Ferrous gluconate (Fergon)
      * Ferrous fumarate (Femiron, Feostat)

Other products may also contain iron.

## Symptoms

Below are symptoms of an iron overdose in different parts of the body.Â

AIRWAYS AND LUNGS

      * Buildup of fluids in the lungs

STOMACH AND INTESTINES

      * Black, and possibly bloody stools
      * Diarrhea
      * Liver damage
      * Metallic taste in mouth
      * Nausea
      * Vomiting blood

HEART AND BLOOD

      * Dehydration
      * Low blood pressure
      * Fast and weak pulse
      * Shock

NERVOUS SYSTEM

      * Chills
      * Coma (decreased level of consciousness and lack of responsiveness, may occur within 1/2 hour to 1 hour after overdose)
      * Convulsions
      * Dizziness
      * Drowsiness
      * Fever
      * Headache
      * Lack of desire to do anything

SKIN

      * Bluish-colored lips and fingernails
      * Flushing
      * Loss of color from the skin (pallor)

Note: Symptoms may go away in a few hours, then return again after 1 day or
later.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

      * Person's age, weight, and condition
      * Name of the product (ingredients and strength, if known)
      * Time it was swallowed
      * Amount swallowed
      * If the medicine was prescribed for the person

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This national hotline number will let you talk to experts in
poisoning. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container to the hospital with you, if possible.Â  

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms
will be treated.

Tests that may done include:

      * Blood and urine tests, including tests to check iron levels
      * ECG (electrocardiogram, orÂ heart tracing)
      * X-ray to detect and track iron tablets through the stomach and intestines

Treatment may include:

      * Fluids through a vein (by IV)
      * Medicine to help remove iron from the body and treat symptoms
      * Endoscopy -- camera and tube placed down the throat to view the esophagus and the stomach and to remove pills or stop internal bleeding
      * Whole bowel irrigation with a special solution to quickly flush the iron through the stomach and intestines (taken by mouth or through a tube through the nose into the stomach)
      * Breathing support, including tube through the mouth into the lungs and connected to a breathing machine (ventilator)

## Outlook (Prognosis)

There is a good chance of recovery if the person's symptoms are gone 48 hours
after the iron overdose. But, severe liver damage can occur 2 to 5 days after
the overdose. Some people have died up to a week after an iron overdose. The
more quickly the person receives treatment, the better the chance for
survival.

Iron overdose can be very severe in children. Children may sometimes eat large
amounts of iron pills because they look like candy. Many manufacturers have
changed their pills so they no longer look like candy.

## Alternative Names

Ferrous sulfate overdose; Ferrous gluconate overdose; Ferrous fumarate
overdose

## References

Aronson JK. Iron salts. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of Drugs_.
16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:323-333.

Kostic MA. Poisoning. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds.
_Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 63.

Theobald JL, Mycyk MB. Iron and heavy metals. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 151.

## Review Date 10/8/2017

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Hierro en la dieta](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Iron_thumb.jpg)Iron _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

