Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007478.htm    
                                Description: Eating iron-rich foods is a key part of treating anemia caused by low iron levels. You may also need to take iron supplements as well to rebuild iron stores in your body.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Taking iron supplements

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007478.htm

# Taking iron supplements

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Eating iron-rich foods is a key part of treating anemia caused by low iron
levels. You may also need to take iron supplements as well to rebuild iron
stores in your body.

## Information

ABOUT IRON SUPPLEMENTS

Iron supplements may be taken as capsules, tablets, chewable tablets, and
liquids. The most common tablet size is 325 mg (ferrous sulfate).Â Other
common chemical forms are ferrous gluconate and ferrous fumarate.

Have your health care provider tell you how many pills you should take each
day and when you should take them. Taking more iron than your body needs can
cause serious medical problems.

Blood counts return to normal after 2 months of iron therapy for most people.
You may need to continue taking supplements for another 6 to 12 months to
build up the body's iron stores in the bone marrow.

TIPS FOR TAKING IRON

Iron is best absorbed on an empty stomach. Yet, iron supplements can cause
stomach cramps, nausea, and diarrhea in some people. You may need to take iron
with a small amount of food to avoid this problem.

Milk, calcium and antacids should NOT be taken at the same time as iron
supplements. You should wait at least 2 hours after having these foods before
taking your iron supplements.

Foods that you should NOT eat at the same time as you take your iron include:

      * High fiber foods, such as whole grains, raw vegetables, and bran
      * Foods or drinks with caffeine 

Some doctors suggest taking a vitamin C supplement or drinking orange juice
with your iron pill. This can help the iron absorb into your body. Drinking 8
ounces (240 milliliters) of fluid with an iron pill is also OK.

Tell your provider about all the medicines you are taking.

      * Iron tablets may cause other drugs you are taking to not work as well. Some of these include tetracycline, penicillin, and ciprofloxacin and drugs used for hypothyroidism, Parkinson disease, and seizures.
      * Medicines that reduce stomach acid will impair iron absorption. Your provider may suggest changing these.
      * Wait at least 2 hours between doses of these drugs and iron supplements. 

SIDE EFFECTS

Constipation and diarrhea are very common. If constipation becomes a problem,
take a stool softener such as docusate sodium (Colace).

Nausea and vomiting may occur with higher doses, but they can be controlled by
taking the iron in smaller amounts. Ask your provider about switching to
another form of iron rather than just stopping.

Black stools are normal when taking iron tablets. In fact, this is felt to be
a sign that the tablets are working correctly. Talk to your provider right
away if:

      * The stools are tarry-looking as well as black
      * If they have red streaks
      * Cramps, sharp pains, or soreness in the stomach occur 

Liquid forms of iron may stain your teeth.

      * Try mixing the iron with water or other liquids (such as fruit juice or tomato juice) and drinking the medicine with a straw.
      * Iron stains can be removed by brushing your teeth with baking soda or peroxide. 

Keep tablets in a cool place. (Bathroom medicine cabinets may be too warm and
humid, which may cause the pills to fall apart.)

Keep iron supplements out of the reach of children. If your child swallows an
iron pill, contact a poison control center right away.

## Images

      * ![Iron supplements](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9483t.jpg)Iron supplements

## References

Brittenham GM. Disorders of iron homeostasis: iron deficiency and overload.
In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ Jr, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic
Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 36.

Ginder GD. Microcytic and hypochromic anemias. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 159.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hierro en la dieta](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Iron_thumb.jpg)Iron _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

