Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000434.htm    
                                Description: Psoriasis is a skin condition that causes skin redness, silvery scales, and irritation. Most people with psoriasis have thick, red, well-defined patches of skin with flaky, silver-white scales. This is    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Psoriasis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000434.htm

# Psoriasis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Psoriasis is a skin condition that causes skin redness, silvery scales, and
irritation. Most people with psoriasis have thick, red, well-defined patches
of skin with flaky, silver-white scales. This is called plaque psoriasis.

## Causes

Psoriasis is common. Anyone can develop it, but it most often begins between
ages 15 and 35, or as people get older.

Psoriasis isn't contagious. This means it doesn't spread to other people.

Psoriasis seems to be passed down through families.

Normal skin cells grow deep in the skin and rise to the surface about once a
month. When you have psoriasis, this process takes place in 14 days rather
than in 3 to 4 weeks. This results in dead skin cells building up on the
skin's surface, forming the collections of scales.

The following may trigger an attack of psoriasis or make it harder to treat:

      * Infections from bacteria or viruses, including strep throat and upper respiratory infections
      * Dry air or dry skin
      * Injury to the skin, including cuts, burns, insect bites, and other skin rashes
      * Some medicines, including antimalaria drugs, beta-blockers, and lithium
      * Stress
      * Too little sunlight
      * Too much sunlight (sunburn) 

Psoriasis may be worse in people who have a weak immune system, including
people with HIV/AIDS.

Some people with psoriasis also have arthritis (psoriatic arthritis). In
addition, people with psoriasis have an increased risk of fatty liver disease
and cardiovascular disorders, such as heart disease and stroke.

## Symptoms

Psoriasis can appear suddenly or slowly. Many times, it goes away and then
comes back.

The main symptom of the condition is irritated, red, flaky plaques of skin.
Plaques are most often seen on the elbows, knees, and middle of the body. But
they can appear anywhere, including on the scalp, palms, soles of the feet,
and genitalia.

The skin may be:

      * Itchy
      * Dry and covered with silver, flaky skin (scales)
      * Pink-red in color
      * Raised and thick 

Other symptoms may include:Â

      * Joint or tendon pain or aching
      * Nail changes, including thick nails, yellow-brown nails, dents in the nail, and a lifting of the nail from the skin underneath
      * Severe dandruff on the scalp 
![Psoriasis on the
knuckles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/2751.jpg)

There are five main types of psoriasis:

      * Erythrodermic -- The skin redness is very intense and covers a large area.
      * Guttate \-- Small, pink-red spots appear on the skin. This form is often linked to strep infections, especially in children.
      * Inverse -- Skin redness and irritation occur in the armpits, groin, and in between overlapping skin rather than the more common areas of the elbows and knees.
      * Plaque -- Thick, red patches of skin are covered by flaky, silver-white scales. This is the most common type of psoriasis.
      * Pustular -- Yellow pus-filled blisters (pustules) are surrounded by red, irritated skin. 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider can usually diagnose this condition by looking at
your skin.

Sometimes, a skin biopsy is done to rule out other possible conditions. If you
have joint pain, your provider may order imaging studies.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to control your symptoms and prevent infection.

Three treatment options are available:

      * Skin lotions, ointments, creams, and shampoos -- These are called topical treatments.
      * Pills or injections that affect the body's immune response, not just the skin -- These are called systemic, or body-wide, treatments.
      * Phototherapy, which uses ultraviolet light to treat psoriasis. 

TREATMENTS USED ON THE SKIN (TOPICAL)

Most of the time, psoriasis is treated with medicines that are placed directly
on the skin or scalp. These may include:

      * Cortisone creams and ointments
      * Other anti-inflammatory creams and ointments
      * Creams or ointments that contain coal tar or anthralin
      * Creams to remove the scaling (usually salicylic acid or lactic acid)
      * Dandruff shampoos (over-the-counter or prescription)
      * Moisturizers
      * Prescription medicines containing vitamin D or vitamin A (retinoids) 

SYSTEMIC (BODY-WIDE) TREATMENTS

If you have moderate to severe psoriasis, your provider will likely recommend
medicines that suppress the immune system's faulty response. These medicines
include methotrexate or cyclosporine. Retinoids, such as acetretin, can also
be used.

Newer drugs, called biologics, are more commonly used as they target the
causes of psoriasis.. Biologics approved for the treatment of psoriasis
include:

      * Adalimumab (Humira)
      * Abatacept (Orencia)
      * Apremilast (Otezla)
      * Brodalumab (Siliq)
      * Certolizumab pegol (Cimzia)
      * Etanercept (Enbrel)
      * Infliximab (Remicade)
      * Ixekizumab (Taltz)
      * Golimumab (Simponi)
      * Guselkumab (Tremfya)
      * Risankizumab-rzaa (Skyrizi)
      * Secukinumab (Cosentyx)
      * Tildrakizumab-asmn (Ilumya)
      * Ustekinumab (Stelara) 

PHOTOTHERAPY

Some people may choose to have phototherapy, which is safe and can be very
effective:

      * This is treatment in which your skin is carefully exposed to ultraviolet light.
      * It may be given alone or after you take a drug that makes the skin sensitive to light.
      * Phototherapy for psoriasis can be given as ultraviolet A (UVA) or ultraviolet B (UVB) light. 

OTHER TREATMENTS

If you have an infection, your provider will prescribe antibiotics.

HOME CARE

Following these tips at home may help:

      * Taking a daily bath or shower -- Try not to scrub too hard, because this can irritate the skin and trigger an attack.
      * Oatmeal baths may be soothing and may help to loosen scales. You can use over-the-counter oatmeal bath products. Or, you can mix 1 cup (128 grams) of oatmeal into a tub (bath) of warm water.
      * Keeping your skin clean and moist, and avoiding your specific psoriasis triggers may help reduce the number of flare-ups.
      * Sunlight may help your symptoms go away. Be careful not to get sunburned.
      * Relaxation and anti-stress techniques -- the link between stress and flares of psoriasis is not well understood. 

## Support Groups

Some people may benefit from a psoriasis support group. The National Psoriasis
Foundation is a good resource: www.psoriasis.org.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Psoriasis can be a lifelong condition that can be usually controlled with
treatment. It may go away for a long time and then return. With proper
treatment, it will not affect your overall health. But be aware that there is
a strong link between psoriasis and other health problems, such as heart
disease.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of psoriasis or if your skin
irritation continues despite treatment.

Tell your provider if you have joint pain or fever with your psoriasis
attacks.

If you have symptoms of arthritis, talk to your dermatologist or
rheumatologist.

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you have a severe outbreak that covers all or most of your body.

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent psoriasis. Keeping the skin clean and moist
and avoiding your psoriasis triggers may help reduce the number of flare-ups.

Providers recommend daily baths or showers for people with psoriasis. Avoid
scrubbing too hard, because this can irritate the skin and trigger an attack.

## Alternative Names

Plaque psoriasis; Psoriasis vulgaris; Guttate psoriasis; Pustular psoriasis

## Images

      * ![Psoriasis on the knuckles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2751t.jpg)Psoriasis on the knuckles

## References

Armstrong AW, Siegel MP, Bagel J, et al. From the Medical Board of the
National Psoriasis Foundation: treatment targets for plaque psoriasis. _J Am
Acad Dermatol._ 2017;76(2):290-298. PMID: 27908543
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27908543.

Habif TP. Psoriasis and other papulosquamous diseases. In: Habif TP, ed.
_Clinical Dermatology: A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 8.

Lebwohl MG, van de Kerkhof P. Psoriasis. In: Lebwohl MG, Heymann WR, Berth-
Jones J, Coulson IH, eds. _Treatment of Skin Disease: Comprehensive
Therapeutic Strategies._ 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 210.

Van de Kerhof PCM, NestlÃ© FO. Psoriasis. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV,
Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology._ 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
8.

## Review Date 7/13/2018

Updated by: Kevin Berman, MD, PhD, Atlanta Center for Dermatologic Disease,
Atlanta, GA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Internal review
and update on 07/10/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Psoriasis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Psoriasis_thumb.jpg)Psoriasis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

