Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000822.htm    
                                Description: Guttate psoriasis is a skin condition in which small, red, scaly, teardrop-shaped spots with silvery scale appear on the arms, legs, and middle of the body. Gutta means &quot;drop&quot; in Latin.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Guttate psoriasis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000822.htm

# Guttate psoriasis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Guttate psoriasis is a skin condition in which small, red, scaly, teardrop-
shaped spots with silvery scale appear on the arms, legs, and middle of the
body. Gutta means "drop" in Latin.

## Causes

Guttate psoriasis is a type of psoriasis. Guttate psoriasis is usually seen in
people younger than 30, especially in children. The condition often develops
suddenly. It usually appears after an infection, most notably strep throat
caused by group A streptococcus. Guttate psoriasis is not contagious. This
means it can't spread to other people.

Psoriasis is a common disorder. The exact cause isn't known. But doctors think
genes and the immune system are involved. Certain things can trigger an attack
of symptoms.

With guttate psoriasis, in addition to strep throat, the following may trigger
an attack:

      * Bacteria or viral infections, including upper respiratory infections
      * Injury to the skin, including cuts, burns, and insect bites
      * Some medicines, including those used to treat malaria and certain heart conditions
      * Stress
      * Sunburn
      * Too much alcohol 

Psoriasis may be severe inÂ people who have a weakened immune system. This may
includeÂ people who have:

      * HIV/AIDS
      * Autoimmune disorders, including rheumatoid arthritis
      * Chemotherapy for cancer 

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Itching
      * Spots on the skin thatÂ are pinkish-red and look like teardrops
      * Spots may be covered with silver, flaky skin called scales
      * Spots usually occur on the arms, legs, and middle of the body (the trunk), but may appear in other body areas 

## Exams and Tests

YourÂ health care providerÂ will look at your skin. Diagnosis is usually based
on what the spots look like.

Often, a person with this type of psoriasis has recently had a sore throat or
upper respiratory infection.

Tests to confirm the diagnosis may include:

      * Skin biopsy
      * Throat culture
      * Blood tests for recent exposure to strep bacteria 

## Treatment

If you are recently infected, your provider may give you antibiotics.

Mild cases of guttate psoriasis are usually treated at home. Your provider may
recommend any of the following:

      * Cortisone or other anti-itch and anti-inflammatory creams
      * Dandruff shampoos (over-the-counter or prescription)
      * Lotions that contain coal tar
      * Moisturizers
      * Prescription medicines that have vitamin D to apply to the skin (topically) or that have vitamin A (retinoids) to take by mouth (orally) 

People with very severe guttate psoriasis may receive medicines to suppress
the body's immune response. These include cyclosporine and methotrexate. A
newer group of medicines called biologicals that alter parts of the immune
system may also be used.

Your provider may suggest phototherapy. This is a medical procedure in which
your skin is carefully exposed to ultraviolet light. Phototherapy may be given
alone or after you take a medicine that makes the skin sensitive to light.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Guttate psoriasis may clear completely following treatment, especially
phototherapy treatment. Sometimes, it may become a chronic (lifelong)
condition, or worsen to the more common plaque-type psoriasis.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of guttate psoriasis.

## Alternative Names

Psoriasis - guttate; Group A streptococcus - guttate psoriasis; Strep throat -
guttate psoriasis

## Images

      * ![Psoriasis - guttate on the arms and chest](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2505t.jpg)Psoriasis - guttate on the arms and chest
      * ![Psoriasis - guttate on the cheek](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2506t.jpg)Psoriasis - guttate on the cheek

## References

Habif TP. Psoriasis and other papulosquamous diseases. In: Habif TP, ed.
_Clinical Dermatology: A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 8.

James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Seborrheic
dermatitis, psoriasis, recalcitrant palmoplantar eruptions, pustular
dermatitis, and erythroderma. In: James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA,
Neuhaus IM, eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 10.

Lebwohl MG, van de Kerkhof P. Psoriasis. In: Lebwohl MG, Heymann WR, Berth-
Jones J, Coulson IH, eds. _Treatment of Skin Disease: Comprehensive
Therapeutic Strategies_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 210.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Psoriasis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Psoriasis_thumb.jpg)Psoriasis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

