Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002037.htm    
                                Description: Ill-fitting dentures can move. This may cause sore spots. Denture adhesive may help cut down on this movement. Dental implants may be recommended in most cases. Implants help stabilize the denture, minimize    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Denture problems

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002037.htm

# Denture problems

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ill-fitting dentures can move. This may cause sore spots. Denture adhesive may
help cut down on this movement. Dental implants may be recommended in most
cases. Implants help stabilize the denture, minimize their movement and
prevent sores. They should only be placed by a well-trained dental specialist.

See a dentist if your dentures do not fit correctly. They may need to be
adjusted or relined.

Other denture tips:

      * Scrub your dentures with plain soap and lukewarm water after eating. DO NOT clean them with toothpaste.
      * Take out your dentures overnight to prevent sores, infections, and inflammation.
      * Keep your dentures in a denture cleaner overnight.
      * Clean, rest, and massage your gums regularly. Rinse daily with lukewarm salt water to help clean your gums.
      * DO NOT use toothpicks when wearing dentures.

## References

Carr AB, Brown DT. Initial placement, adjustment, and servicing of the
removable partial denture. In: Carr AB, Brown DT, eds. _McCracken's Removable
Partial Prosthodontics_. 13th ed. St Louis, MO. Elsevier; 2016:chap 21.

Daher T, Goodacre CJ, Sadowsky SJ. Implant overdentures. In: Fonseca RJ, ed.
_Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 39.

## Review Date 2/5/2018

Updated by: Ilona Fotek, DMD, MS, Dental Healing Arts, Jupiter, FL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Dentures](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dentures2_thumb.jpg)Dentures _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

