Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000617.htm    
                                Description: Most women should gain somewhere between 25 and 35 pounds (11 and 16 kilograms) during pregnancy. If a woman does not gain enough weight, there may be health problems for the mother and baby.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

When you need to gain more weight during pregnancy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000617.htm

# When you need to gain more weight during pregnancy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Most women should gain somewhere between 25 and 35 pounds (11 and 16
kilograms) during pregnancy. If a woman does not gain enough weight, there may
be health problems for the mother and baby.

## What is the Right Amount of Weight to Gain?

Most women will gain 2 to 4 pounds (1 to 2 kilograms) during the first
trimester, and 1 pound (0.5 kilogram) a week for the rest of the pregnancy.
Through the entire pregnancy:

      * Overweight women need to gain less (15 to 20 pounds or 7 to 9 kilograms or less, depending on their prepregnancy weight).
      * Underweight women will need to gain more (28 to 40 pounds or 13 to 18 kilograms).
      * You should gain more weight if you are having more than one baby. Women having twins will need to gain 37 to 54 pounds (17 to 24 kilograms). 

Some women have a hard time gaining weight during pregnancy. Sometimes, it is
because they start a pregnancy underweight, or they have other health issues
that keep them from gaining weight. Sometimes, they are not able to keep food
down due to nausea and vomiting.

Either way, a balanced, nutrient-rich diet, along with moderate exercise, is
the basis for a healthy pregnancy. Ask your health care provider how many
calories you should eat each day, and how you can gain the right amount of
weight.

## If you Need to Gain Weight During Pregnancy

If your provider says you should gain more weight, here are some tips to help:

      * DO NOT skip meals. Instead of eating 3 big meals, eat 5 to 6 small meals every day.
      * Keep quick, easy snacks on hand. Nuts, raisins, cheese and crackers, dried fruit, and ice cream or yogurt are good choices.
      * Spread peanut butter on toast, crackers, apples, bananas, or celery. One tablespoon (16 grams) of creamy peanut butter will provide about 100 calories and 3.5 grams of protein.
      * Add nonfat powdered milk to foods such as mashed potatoes, scrambled eggs, and hot cereal.
      * Add butter or margarine, cream cheese, gravy, sour cream, and cheese to your meals.
      * Try to eat more foods that are high in good fats, such as nuts, fatty fish, avocados, and olive oil.
      * Drink juices made from real fruit that are high in vitamin C or beta carotene. Grapefruit juice, orange juice, papaya nectar, apricot nectar, and carrot juice are good choices.
      * Avoid junk food.
      * Ask your provider about taking prenatal vitamins and other supplements.
      * See a dietitian or nutritionist for help with your diet, if your provider recommends it. 

## Body Image and Pregnancy

If you have struggled with your weight in the past, it may be hard to accept
that it is OK to gain weight now. It is normal to feel anxious as the numbers
on the scale edge up.

Pregnancy is not a time to diet or worry about weight gain. Keep in mind that
weight gain is needed for a healthy pregnancy. The extra weight will come off
after you have had your baby. Remember not to gain too much, as this can cause
your baby to be too big. A healthy diet and regular exercise will help you
have a healthy pregnancy and baby.

If worries about your body image affect your pregnancy or daily life, talk to
your provider.

## References

Bodnar LM, Himes KP. Maternal nutrition. In: Resnick R, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR,
Greene MF, et al, eds. _Creasy and Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine:
Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2019:chap 12.

Cline M, Young N. Antepartum care. In: Kellerman RD, Bope ET, eds. _Conn's
Current Therapy 2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:1123-1129.

West EH, Hark L, Catalano PM. Nutrition during pregnancy. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl
JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 7.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Pregnancy and Nutrition

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

