Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000584.htm    
                                Description: Pregnant women should eat a balanced diet.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Eating right during pregnancy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000584.htm

# Eating right during pregnancy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pregnant women should eat a balanced diet.

## Eat Healthy for you and Your Baby

Making a baby is hard work for a woman's body. Eating right is one of the best
things you can do to help your baby grow and develop normally.

Eating a balanced, healthy diet can help prevent:

      * Too much weight gain
      * Gestational diabetes
      * The chance of needing a C-section
      * Anemia and infections in the mother
      * Poor healing
      * An early birth of the baby
      * A low birth-weight baby

## Eating for two

The amount of healthy weight gain in pregnancy varies. These are general
guidelines:

      * Normal total weight gain for a healthy woman is 25 to 35 pounds (11 to 16 kilograms).
      * Overweight women should gain only 10 to 20 pounds (4 to 9 kilograms) during pregnancy.
      * Underweight women or women with multiples (twins or more) should gain 35 to 45 pounds (16 to 20 kilograms) in pregnancy. 

Ask your health care provider how much weight you should gain.

Eating for two does not mean eating twice as much food. Pregnant women need
about 300 extra calories a day. But, where these calories come from matters.

      * If you eat sweets or junk food, the extra calories do not provide the nutrients your baby needs.
      * As a result, your growing baby will get the vitamins and minerals it needs from your own body. Your health could suffer. 

Instead of junk food, choose foods that are:

      * High in protein
      * Rich in omega-3 polyunsaturated fats and lower in trans fats and saturated fats
      * Low in sugar (sugar provides only empty calories) or refined carbohydrates high in fiber 

Other nutrients your baby needs are:

      * Calcium, for healthy growth.
      * Iron, for the baby's blood supply. It also prevents anemia in the mother.
      * Folic acid, for reducing the risk for spina bifida (incomplete closing of the spinal column), anencephaly (defect of the brain), and other birth defects. 

## What to eat

Eating a well-rounded diet with all of the right nutrients and getting at
least 30 minutes of exercise per day is important for a healthy pregnancy. For
most normal-weight pregnant women, the right amount of calories is:

      * About 1,800 calories per day during the first trimester
      * About 2,200 calories per day during the second trimester
      * About 2,400 calories per day during the third trimester

Bread, cereal, rice, and pasta:

      * Eat 9 to 11 servings a day.
      * These foods give you carbohydrates. They turn into energy for your body and for your baby's growth.
      * Whole-grain and fortified products have folic acid and iron.

Vegetables:

      * Vegetables are a good source of vitamins A and C, folic acid, iron, and magnesium.
      * Eat 4 to 5 servings a day.
      * Try to get at least 2 of your daily servings from green, leafy vegetables.

Fruit:

      * Eat 3 to 4 servings a day.
      * Fruit gives you vitamins A and C, potassium, and fiber. Choose fresh fruits and juices. They are better for you than frozen or canned fruits. Eat plenty of vitamin C-rich foods, like citrus fruits, melons, and berries. Try to avoid juices that have sugar or sweeteners added. 

Milk, yogurt, and cheese:

      * Eat 3 servings a day.
      * Dairy products are a great source of protein, calcium, and phosphorus. If you need to limit calories and cholesterol, choose nonfat dairy products. 

Meat, poultry, fish, dry beans, eggs, and nuts:

      * Eat 3 servings a day.
      * Foods from this group are good sources of B vitamins, protein, iron, and zinc. 

Fats and oils

You need moderate amounts of fat in your diet for you and your growing baby.
Fats provide long-term energy for growth and are needed for brain development.
Women with special diet needs should plan their meals carefully to make sure
they get the nutrition they need. Talk to your provider or a dietitian if you
have a special diet, such as:

      * Vegetarian or vegan
      * Lactose intolerant
      * Gluten-free 

## Fluids and Vitamins

Pregnant women should also drink plenty of fluids. Avoid drinks with caffeine
and sugar. Ask your provider how much fluid you should get each day.

You should also take a prenatal vitamin that has folic acid, iron, and the
other vitamins and minerals that all women need. Your provider may give you a
prescription for vitamins. You can also get prenatal vitamins over-the-
counter.

## Food Cravings

Though no one knows why, many pregnant women have cravings for certain foods.
It may be because of hormone changes. These cravings will often pass after the
first 3 months.

As long as you are getting all the nutrients you need for you and your baby,
it is fine to have some of the foods you crave every now and then.

Sometimes, pregnant women will get strange cravings for things that are not
food, such as dirt, clay, laundry detergent, or ice chips. This is called
pica, and it may be caused by too little iron in the blood, which leads to
anemia. Let your provider know if you have these cravings.

## Alternative Names

Prenatal care - eating right

## References

Cline M, Young N. Antepartum care. In: Kellerman RD, Bope ET, eds. _Conn's
Current Therapy 2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:1123-1129.

Gregory KD, Ramos DE, Jauniaux ERM. Preconception and prenatal care. In: Gabbe
SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 6.

West EH, Hark L, Catalano PM. Nutrition during pregnancy. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl
JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 7.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Pregnancy and Nutrition

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

