Link: https://medlineplus.gov/pelvicinflammatorydisease.html    
                                Description: Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID) is inflammation and infection of a woman&#39;s reproductive organs. If untreated, it may cause infertility. Read more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Pelvic Inflammatory Disease

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/pelvicinflammatorydisease.html

#  Pelvic Inflammatory Disease

Also called: PID

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) is an infection and inflammation of the
uterus, ovaries, and other female reproductive organs. It causes scarring in
these organs. This can lead to infertility, ectopic pregnancy, pelvic pain,
abscesses, and other serious problems. PID is the most common preventable
cause of infertility in the United States.

Gonorrhea and chlamydia, two sexually transmitted diseases, are the most
common causes of PID. Other bacteria can also cause it. You are at greater
risk if you

    * Are sexually active and younger than 25
    * Have more than one sex partner
    * Douche

Some women have no symptoms. Others have pain in the lower abdomen, fever,
smelly vaginal discharge, irregular bleeding, and pain during intercourse or
urination. Doctors diagnose PID with a physical exam, lab tests, and imaging
tests. Antibiotics can cure PID. Early treatment is important. Waiting too
long increases the risk of infertility.

## Start Here

    * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish
    * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID) (American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists)
    * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID) Fact Sheet (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Laparoscopy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Pelvic laparoscopy - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID) Treatment and Care (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Related Issues

    * Douching (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish

## Statistics and Research

    * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID) Statistics (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Pelvic Inflammatory Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Feeding behavior and agonistic interactions at the feed bunk are associated...
    * Article: Mycoplasma genitalium infection.
    * Article: Sodium butyrate alleviates lipopolysaccharide-induced endometritis in mice through inhibiting inflammatory response.
    * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
    * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)

## Teenagers

    * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (For Teens) (Nemours Foundation)

## Patient Handouts

    * Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF
    * Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) -- aftercare (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Pelvic Inflammatory
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PelvicInflammatoryDisease.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Diagnostic laparoscopy
    * Endometritis
    * Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID)
    * Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) -- aftercare
    * Pelvic laparoscopy
    * Pelvic laparoscopy - slideshow

## Related Health Topics

    * Sexually Transmitted Diseases

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Pelvic Inflammatory Disease is
the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 4 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

