Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000603.htm    
                                Description: Most women should gain somewhere between 25 and 35 pounds (11.5 to 16 kilograms) during pregnancy. Most will gain 2 to 4 pounds (1 to 2 kilograms) during the first trimester, and then 1 pound (0.5 kilogram)    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Managing your weight gain during pregnancy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000603.htm

# Managing your weight gain during pregnancy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Most women should gain somewhere between 25 and 35 pounds (11.5 to 16
kilograms) during pregnancy. Most will gain 2 to 4 pounds (1 to 2 kilograms)
during the first trimester, and then 1 pound (0.5 kilogram) a week for the
rest of the pregnancy. The amount of weight gain depends on your situation.

      * Overweight women need to gain less (15 to 25 pounds or 7 to 11 kilograms or less, depending on their pre-pregnancy weight).
      * Underweight women will need to gain more (28 to 40 pounds or 13 to 18 kilograms).
      * You should gain more weight if you are having more than 1 baby. Women having twins need to gain 37 to 54 pounds (16.5 to 24.5 kilograms). 

A balanced, nutrient-rich diet, along with exercise, is the basis for a
healthy pregnancy. For most pregnant women, the right amount of calories is:

      * 1,800 calories per day in the 1st trimester
      * 2,200 calories per day in the 2nd trimester
      * 2,400 calories per day in the 3rd trimester 

## What's Causing the Weight Gain?

Much of the weight that you gain during pregnancy is not fat, but is related
to the baby. Here is a breakdown of how 35 pounds (16 kilograms) adds up:

      * Baby: 8 pounds (3.5 kilograms)
      * Placenta: 2 to 3 pounds (1 to 1.5 kilograms)
      * Amniotic fluid: 2 to 3 pounds (1 to 1.5 kilograms)
      * Breast tissue: 2 to 3 pounds (1 to 1.5 kilograms)
      * Blood supply: 4 pounds (2 kilograms)
      * Fat stores: 5 to 9 pounds (2.5 to 4 kilograms)
      * Uterus growth: 2 to 5 pounds (1 to 2.5 kilograms) 

## Managing Weight During Pregnancy

Some women are already overweight when they get pregnant. Other women gain
weight too quickly during their pregnancy. Either way, a pregnant woman should
not go on a diet or try to lose weight during pregnancy.

It is better to focus on eating the right foods and staying active. If you do
not gain enough weight during pregnancy, you and your baby may have problems.

Still, you can make changes in your diet to get the nutrients you need without
gaining too much weight. Talk to your health care provider to get help with
planning a healthy diet.

Below are some healthy eating tips to help you get started.

Healthy choices:

      * Fresh fruits and vegetables make good snacks. They are full of vitamins and low in calories and fat.
      * Eat breads, crackers, and cereals made with whole grains.
      * Choose reduced-fat dairy products. You need at least 4 servings of milk products every day. However, using skim, 1%, or 2% milk will greatly reduce the amount of calories and fat you eat. Also choose low-fat or fat-free cheese or yogurt. 

Foods to avoid:

      * Naturally sweetened is better than foods and drinks with added sugar or artificial sweeteners.
      * Food and drinks that list sugar or corn syrup as one of the first ingredients are not good choices.
      * Many sweetened drinks are high in calories. Read the label and watch out for drinks that are high in sugar. Substitute water for sodas and fruit drinks.
      * Avoid junk-food snacks, such as chips, candy, cake, cookies, and ice cream. The best way to keep from eating junk food or other unhealthy snacks is to not have these foods in your house.
      * Go light on fats. Fats include cooking oils, margarine, butter, gravy, sauces, mayonnaise, regular salad dressings, lard, sour cream, and cream cheese. Try the lower-fat versions of these foods. 

Eating out:

      * Knowing the amount of calories, fat, and salt in your food can help you eat healthier.
      * Most restaurants have menus and nutrition facts on their websites. Use these to plan ahead.
      * In general, eat at places that offer salads, soups, and vegetables.
      * Avoid fast food. 

Cooking at home:

      * Prepare meals using low-fat cooking methods.
      * Avoid fried foods. Frying foods in oil or butter will increase the calories and fat of the meal.
      * Baking, broiling, grilling, and boiling are healthier, lower-fat methods of cooking. 

Exercise:

      * Moderate exercise, as recommended by your provider, can help burn extra calories.
      * Walking and swimming are generally safe, effective exercises for pregnant women.
      * Be sure to talk to your provider before starting an exercise program. 

## Body Image During Pregnancy

If you have struggled with your weight in the past, it may be hard to accept
that it is ok to gain weight now. It is normal to feel anxious as the numbers
on the scale edge up.

Keep in mind that you need to gain weight for a healthy pregnancy. The extra
pounds will come off after you have had your baby. However, if you gain a lot
more weight than is recommended, your baby will also be bigger. That can
sometimes lead to problems with delivery. A healthy diet and regular exercise
are your best ways to ensure a healthy pregnancy and baby.

## Alternative Names

Prenatal care - managing your weight

## References

Bodnar LM, Himes KP. Maternal nutrition. In: Resnik R, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR,
Greene MF, Copel JA, Silver RM, eds. _Creasy and Resnik's Maternal-Fetal
Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 12.

West EH, Hark L, Catalano PM. Nutrition during pregnancy. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl
JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 7.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Pregnancy and Nutrition

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

