Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007668.htm    
                                Description: Diverticulosis occurs when small, bulging sacs or pouches form on the inner wall of the intestine. These sacs are called diverticula. Most often, these pouches form in the large intestine (colon).Â Although    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diverticulosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007668.htm

# Diverticulosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Diverticulosis occurs when small, bulging sacs or pouches form on the inner
wall of the intestine. These sacs are called diverticula. Most often, these
pouches form in the large intestine (colon).Â Although less common, may occur
in the jejunum in the small intestine.

## Causes

Diverticulosis is less common in people age 40 and younger. It's more common
in older adults. About half of Americans over age 60 have this condition. Most
people will have it by age 80.

No one knows exactly what causes these pouches to form.

For many years, it was thought that eating a low-fiber diet may play a role.
Not eating enough fiber can cause constipation (hard stools). Straining to
pass stools (feces) increases the pressure in the colon or intestines. This
may cause the pouches to form at weak spots in the colon wall. However,
whether a low-fiber diet leads to this problem is not well proven.

Other possible risk factors that are also not well proven are lack of exercise
and obesity.

Eating nuts, popcorn, or corn does not appear to lead to diverticular disease.

## Symptoms

Most people with diverticulosis have no symptoms.

When symptoms occur, they may include:

      * Pain and cramps in your stomach
      * Constipation (sometimes diarrhea)
      * Bloating or gas
      * Not feeling hungry and not eating

You may notice small amounts of blood in your stools or on toilet paper.
Rarely, more severe bleeding may occur.  

## Exams and Tests

Diverticulosis is often found during an exam for another health problem. For
example, it is often discovered during a colonoscopy.

If you do have symptoms, you may have one or more of the following tests:

      * Blood tests to see if you have an infection or have lost too much blood
      * CT scan or ultrasound of the abdomen if you have bleeding, loose stools, or pain

A colonoscopy is needed to make the diagnosis:

      * A colonoscopy is an exam that views the inside of the colon and rectum.Â This test should not be done when you are having symptoms of acute diverticulitis.
      * A small camera attached to a tube can reach the length of the colon.

Angiography

      * Angiography is an imaging test that uses x-rays and a special dye to see inside the blood vessels.
      * This test may be used if the area of bleeding is not seen during a colonoscopy.

## Treatment

Because most people have no symptoms, most of the time, no treatment is
needed.

Your health care provider may recommend getting more fiber in your diet. A
high-fiber diet has many health benefits. Most people don't get enough fiber.
To help prevent constipation, you should:

      * Eat plenty of whole grains, beans, fruits, and vegetables. Limit processed foods.
      * Drink plenty of fluids.
      * Get regular exercise.
      * Talk with your provider about taking a fiber supplement. 

You should avoid NSAIDs such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Motrin), and naproxen
(Aleve). These medicines can make bleeding more likely.

For bleeding that does not stop or recurs:

      * Colonoscopy may be used to inject medicines or burn a certain area in the intestine to stop the bleeding.
      * Angiography may be used to infuse medicines or block off a blood vessel. 

If bleeding does not stop or recurs many times, removal of a section of the
colon may be needed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people who have diverticulosis have no symptoms. Once these pouches have
formed, you will have them for life.

Up to 25% of people with the condition will develop diverticulitis. This
occurs when small pieces of stool become trapped in the pouches, causing
infection or swelling.

## Possible Complications

More serious problems that may develop include:

      * Abnormal connections that form between parts of the colon or between the colon and another part of the body (fistula)
      * Hole or tear in the colon (perforation)
      * Narrowed area in the colon (stricture)
      * Pockets filled with pus or infection (abscess)  

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if symptoms of diverticulitis occur.

## Alternative Names

Diverticula - diverticulosis; Diverticular disease - diverticulosis; G.I.
bleed - diverticulosis; Gastrointestinal hemorrhage - diverticulosis;
Gastrointestinal bleed - diverticulosis

## References

Bhuket TP, Stollman NH. Diverticular disease of the colon. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 121.

Goldblum JR. Large bowel. In: Goldblum JR, Lamps LW, McKenney JK, Myers JL,
eds. _Rosai and Ackerman's Surgical Pathology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 17.

Hartney M, Zoumberos MS, Fabri PJ. The management of diverticulosis of the
small bowel. In: Cameron JL, Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:128-130.

Templeton AW, Strate LL. Updates in diverticular disease. _Curr Gastroenterol
Rep_. 2013;15(8):339. PMID: 24010157 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24010157.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diverticulosis and
Diverticulitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiverticulosisandDiverticulitis_thumb.jpg)Diverticulosis
and Diverticulitis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

