Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000302.htm    
                                Description: Diverticulitis is inflammation of small pouches (diverticula) that can form in the walls of your large intestine. This leads to fever and pain in your belly, most often the lower left part.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diverticulitis - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000302.htm

# Diverticulitis - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Diverticulitis is inflammation of small pouches (diverticula) that can form in
the walls of your large intestine. This leads to fever and pain in your belly,
most often the lower left part.

Below are some questions you may want to ask your health care provider about
diverticulitis.

## Questions

What causes diverticulitis?

What are the symptoms of diverticulitis?

What type of diet should I be eating?

      * How do I get more fiber in my diet?
      * Are there foods that I should not be eating?
      * Is it OK to drink coffee or tea, or alcohol? 

What should I do if my symptoms become worse?

      * Do I need to change what I eat?
      * Are there medicines that I should take?
      * When should I call the doctor? 

What are the complications of diverticulitis?

Will I ever need surgery?

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about diverticulitis

## Images

      * ![Colonoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1083t.jpg)Colonoscopy

## References

Bhuket TP, Stollman NH. Diverticular disease of the colon. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 121.

Stocchi L. Diverticulitis. In: McNalley PR, ed. _GI/Liver Secrets Plus_. 5th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2015:chap 47.

## Read More

      * Black or tarry stools
      * Diverticulitis

## Patient Instructions

      * Diverticulitis and diverticulosis - discharge
      * High-fiber foods
      * How to read food labels
      * Refractive corneal surgery - discharge

## Review Date 6/22/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Diverticulosis and Diverticulitis

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

