Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000257.htm    
                                Description: Diverticula are small, bulging sacs or pouches that form on the inner wall of the intestine. Diverticulitis occurs when these pouches become inflamed or infected. Most often, these pouches are in the large    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diverticulitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000257.htm

# Diverticulitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Diverticula are small, bulging sacs or pouches that form on the inner wall of
the intestine. Diverticulitis occurs when these pouches become inflamed or
infected. Most often, these pouches are in the large intestine (colon).

## Causes

The formation of pouches or sacs on the intestinal lining is called
diverticulosis. It is found in more than half of Americans over age 60.
However, no one knows exactly what causes the pouches to form.

Eating a low-fiber diet mostly made up of processed foods may be a cause.
Constipation and hard stools are more likely when you do not eat enough fiber.
Straining to pass stools increases the pressure in the colon or intestines,
which may lead to the formation of these pouches.

In some cases, one of the pouches can become inflamed and a small tear
develops in the lining of the intestine. This can lead to an infection at the
site. When this occurs, the condition is called diverticulitis. The cause of
diverticulitis is not known.

## Symptoms

People with diverticulosis often have no symptoms, but they may have bloating
and cramping in the lower part of the belly. Rarely, they may notice blood in
their stool or on toilet paper.

Symptoms of diverticulitis are more severe and often start suddenly, but they
may become worse over a few days. They include:

      * Tenderness, usually in the left lower side of the abdomen
      * Bloating or gas
      * Fever and chills
      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Not feeling hungry and not eating 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine you. You may need blood tests to see if
you have an infection.

Other tests that help diagnose diverticulitis may include:

      * CT scan
      * Ultrasound of the abdomen
      * X-rays of the abdomen 

## Treatment

The treatment of diverticulitis depends on how serious the symptoms are. Some
people may need to be in the hospital, but most of the time, the problem can
be treated at home.

To help with the pain, your provider may suggest that you:

      * Rest in bed and use a heating pad on your belly.
      * Take pain medicines (ask your provider which ones you should use).
      * Drink only fluids for a day or two, and then slowly begin drinking thicker liquids and then eating foods. 

The provider may treat you with antibiotics.

After you are better, your provider will suggest that you add more fiber to
your diet. Eating more fiber can help prevent future attacks. If you have
bloating or gas, reduce the amount of fiber you eat for a few days.

Once these pouches have formed, you will have them for life. Diverticulitis
can return, but some providers think a high-fiber diet may lessen your chances
of a recurrence.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most often, this is a mild condition that responds well to treatment. Some
people will have more than one attack of diverticulitis. Surgery may be needed
in some cases. Many times, providers will recommend that you have a
colonoscopy after diverticulitis has healed.

## Possible Complications

More serious problems that may develop are:

      * Abnormal connections that form between parts of the colon or between the colon and another part of the body (fistula)
      * Hole or tear in the colon (perforation)
      * Narrowed area in the colon (stricture)
      * Pocket filled with pus or infection (abscess) 
      * Bleeding from the diverticula

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if symptoms of diverticulitis occur.

Also call if you have diverticulitis and you have:

      * Blood in your stools
      * Fever above 100.4Â°F (38Â°C) that does not go away
      * Nausea, vomiting, or chills
      * Sudden belly or back pain that gets worse or is very severe 

## Patient Instructions

      * Diverticulitis and diverticulosis - discharge
      * Diverticulitis - what to ask your doctor 
      * High-fiber foods
      * Low-fiber diet

## Images

      * ![Colonoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1083t.jpg)Colonoscopy
      * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
      * ![Colon diverticula - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/15806t.jpg)Colon diverticula - series

## References

Bhuket TP, Stollman NH. Diverticular disease of the colon. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _SleisengerÂ and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 121.

Kuemmerle JF. Inflammatory and anatomic diseases of the intestine, peritoneum,
mesentery, and omentum. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 142.

## Review Date 4/5/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diverticulosis and
Diverticulitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiverticulosisandDiverticulitis_thumb.jpg)Diverticulosis
and Diverticulitis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

