Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000192.htm    
                                Description: You were in the hospital to treat diverticulitis. This is an infection of an abnormal pouch (called a diverticulum) in your intestinal wall. This article tells you how to take care of yourself when you    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diverticulitis and diverticulosis - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000192.htm

# Diverticulitis and diverticulosis - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You were in the hospital to treat diverticulitis. This is an infection of an
abnormal pouch (called a diverticulum) in your intestinal wall. This article
tells you how to take care of yourself when you leave the hospital.

## When You're in the Hospital

You may have had a CT scan or other tests that helped your doctor check your
colon. You may have received fluids and drugs that fight infections through an
intravenous (IV) tube in your vein. You were probably on a special diet to
help your colon rest and heal.

If your diverticulitis was very bad, or a repeat of past swelling, you may
need surgery.

Your health care provider may also recommend that you have further tests to
look at your colon (large intestine) such as colonoscopy. It is important to
follow up with these tests.

## What to Expect at Home

Your pain and other symptoms should go away after a few days of treatment. If
they do not get better, or if they get worse, you will need to call the
provider.

Once these pouches have formed, you have them for life. If you make a few
simple changes in your lifestyle, you may not have diverticulitis again.

## Self-care

Your provider may have given you antibiotics to treat any infection. Take them
as you were told you to. Make sure you finish the whole prescription. Call
your provider if you have any side effects.

DO NOT put off having a bowel movement. This can lead to a firmer stool, which
will make you use more force to pass it.

Eat a healthy, well-balanced diet. Exercise regularly.

## Diet

When you first go home or after an attack, your provider may ask you to drink
liquids only at first, then slowly increase your diet. In the beginning, you
may need to avoid whole-grain foods, fruits, and vegetables. This will help
your colon rest.

After you are better, your provider will suggest that you add more fiber to
your diet and avoid certain foods. Eating more fiber may help prevent future
attacks. If you have bloating or gas, cut down the amount of fiber you eat for
a few days.

High fiber foods include:

      * Fruits, such as tangerines, prunes, apples, bananas, peaches, and pears
      * Tender cooked vegetables, such as asparagus, beets, mushrooms, turnips, pumpkin, broccoli, artichokes, lima beans, squash, carrots, and sweet potatoes
      * Lettuce and peeled potatoes
      * Vegetable juices
      * High-fiber cereals (such as shredded wheat) and muffins
      * Hot cereals, such as oatmeal, farina, and cream of wheat
      * Whole-grain breads (whole wheat or whole rye) 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have:

      * Blood in your stools
      * Fever above 100.4Â°F (38Â°C) that does not go away
      * Nausea, vomiting, or chills
      * Sudden belly or back pain, or pain that gets worse or is very severe 
      * Ongoing diarrhea

## Alternative Names

Diverticular disease - discharge

## References

Bhuket TP, Stollman NH. Diverticular disease of the colon. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 121.

Kuemmerle JK. Inflammatory and anatomic diseases of the intestine, peritoneum,
mesentery, and omentum. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 142.

## Read More

      * Black or tarry stools
      * Diverticulitis

## Patient Instructions

      * Constipation - what to ask your doctor
      * Diverticulitis - what to ask your doctor 
      * High-fiber foods
      * How to read food labels
      * Low-fiber diet

## Review Date 10/29/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Diverticulosis and Diverticulitis

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

