Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007393.htm    
                                Description: Angioplasty is a procedure to open narrowed or blocked blood vessels that supply blood to your legs. Fatty deposits can build up inside the arteries and block blood flow.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Angioplasty and stent placement - peripheral arteries

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007393.htm

# Angioplasty and stent placement - peripheral arteries

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Angioplasty is a procedure to open narrowed or blocked blood vessels that
supply blood to your legs. Fatty deposits can build up inside the arteries and
block blood flow.  

A stent is a small, metal mesh tube that keeps the artery open.

Angioplasty and stent placement are two ways to open blocked peripheral
arteries.

## Description

Angioplasty uses a medical "balloon" to widen blocked arteries. The balloon
presses against the inside wall of the artery to open the space and improve
blood flow. A metal stent is often placed across the artery wall to keep the
artery from narrowing again.  

To treat a blockage in your leg, angioplasty can be done in the following:

      * Aorta, the main artery that comes from your heart
      * Artery in your hip or pelvis
      * Artery in your thigh
      * Artery behind your knee
      * Artery in your lower leg 

Before the procedure:

      * You will be given medicine to help you relax. You will be awake, but sleepy.
      * You may also be given blood-thinning medicine to keep a blood clot from forming.
      * You will lie down on your back on a padded operating table. Your surgeon will inject some numbing medicine into the area that will be treated, so that you do not feel pain. This is called local anesthesia. 

Your surgeon will then place a tiny needle into the blood vessel in your
groin. A tiny flexible wire will be inserted through this needle.

      * Your surgeon will be able to see your artery with live x-ray pictures. Dye will be injected into your body to show blood flow through your arteries. The dye will make it easier to see the blocked area.
      * Your surgeon will guide a thin tube called a catheter through your artery to the blocked area.
      * Next, your surgeon will pass a guide wire through the catheter to the blockage.
      * The surgeon will push another catheter with a very small balloon on the end over the guide wire and into the blocked area.
      * The balloon is then filled with contrast fluid to inflate the balloon. This opens the blocked vessel and restores blood flow to your heart. 

A stent may also be placed in the blocked area. The stent is inserted at the
same time as the balloon catheter. It expands when the balloon is blown up.
The stent is left in place to help keep the artery open. The balloon and all
the wires are then removed.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Symptoms of a blocked peripheral artery are pain, achiness, or heaviness in
your leg that starts or gets worse when you walk.

You may not need this procedure if you can still do most of your everyday
activities. Your health care provider may have you try medicines and other
treatments first.

Reasons for having this surgery are:

      * You have symptoms that keep you from doing daily tasks. Your symptoms do not get better with other medical treatment.
      * You have skin ulcers or wounds on the leg that do not get better.
      * You have an infection or gangrene on the leg.
      * You have pain in your leg caused by narrowed arteries, even when you are resting. 

Before having angioplasty, you will have special tests to see the extent of
the blockage in your blood vessels.

## Risks

Risks of angioplasty and stent placement are:

      * Allergic reaction to the drug used in a stent that releases medicine into your body
      * Allergic reaction to the x-ray dye
      * Bleeding or clotting in the area where the catheter was inserted
      * Blood clot in the legs or the lungs
      * Damage to a blood vessel
      * Damage to a nerve, which could cause pain or numbness in the leg
      * Damage to the artery in the groin, which may need urgent surgery
      * Heart attack
      * Infection in the surgical cut
      * Kidney failure (higher risk in people who already have kidney problems)
      * Misplacement of the stent
      * Stroke (this is rare)
      * Failure to open the affected artery
      * Loss of limb

## Before the Procedure

During the 2 weeks before surgery:

      * Tell your provider what medicines you are taking, even drugs, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription.
      * Tell your provider if you are allergic to seafood, if you have had a bad reaction to contrast material (dye) or iodine in the past, or if you are or could be pregnant.
      * Tell your provider if you are taking sildenafil (Viagra), vardenafil (Levitra), or tadalafil (Cialis).
      * Tell your provider if you have been drinking a lot of alcohol (more than 1 or 2 drinks a day).
      * You may need to stop taking drugs that make it harder for your blood to clot 2 weeks before surgery. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), clopidogrel (Plavix), Naprosyn (Aleve, Naproxen), and other medicines like these.
      * Ask which medicines you should still take on the day of your surgery.
      * If you smoke, you must stop. Ask your provider for help.
      * Always let your provider know about any cold, flu, fever, herpes breakout, or other illness you may have before your surgery. 

DO NOT drink anything after midnight the night before your surgery, including
water.

On the day of your surgery:

      * Take your medicines your provider told you to take with a small sip of water.
      * You will be told when to arrive at the hospital. 

## After the Procedure

Many people are able to go home from the hospital in 2 days or less. Some
people may not even have to stay overnight. You should be able to walk around
within 6 to 8 hours after the procedure.

Your provider will explain how to take care of yourself.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Angioplasty improves artery blood flow for most people. Results will vary,
depending on where your blockage was, the size of your blood vessel, and how
much blockage there is in other arteries.

You may not need open bypass surgery if you have angioplasty. If the procedure
does not help, your surgeon may need to do open bypass surgery, or even
amputation.

## Alternative Names

Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty - peripheral artery; PTA - peripheral
artery; Angioplasty - peripheral arteries; Iliac artery - angioplasty; Femoral
artery - angioplasty; Popliteal artery - angioplasty; Tibial artery -
angioplasty; Peroneal artery - angioplasty; Peripheral vascular disease -
angioplasty; PVD - angioplasty; PAD - angioplasty

## Patient Instructions

      * Angioplasty and stent placement - peripheral arteries - discharge 
      * Antiplatelet drugs - P2Y12 inhibitors
      * Aspirin and heart disease
      * Cholesterol and lifestyle
      * Cholesterol - drug treatment
      * Controlling your high blood pressure
      * Peripheral artery bypass - leg - discharge 

## References

Bonaca MP, Creager MA. Peripheral artery diseases. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 64.

Kinlay S, Bhatt DL. Treatment of noncoronary obstructive vascular disease. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 66.

Society for Vascular Surgery Lower Extremity Guidelines Writing Group; Conte
MS, Pomposelli FB, et al. Society for Vascular Surgery practice guidelines for
atherosclerotic occlusive disease of the lower extremities: management of
asymptomatic disease and claudication. _J Vasc Surg_. 2015;61(3 Suppl):2S-41S.
PMID: 25638515 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25638515.

Writing Committee Members, Gerhard-Herman MD, Gornik HL, et al. 2016 AHA/ACC
Guideline on the management of patients with lower extremity peripheral artery
disease: executive summary. _Vasc Med_. 2017;22(3):NP1-NP43. PMID: 28494710
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28494710.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Mary C. Mancini, MD, PhD, Director, Cardiothoracic Surgery,
Christus Highland Medical Center, Shreveport, LA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Atherosclerosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Atherosclerosis2_thumb.jpg)Atherosclerosis
_Read more_

![Peripheral Arterial
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeripheralArterialDisease_thumb.jpg)Peripheral
Arterial Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

