Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003772.htm    
                                Description: Extremity angiography is a test used to see the arteries in the hands, arms, feet, or legs. It is also called peripheral angiography.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Extremity angiography

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003772.htm

# Extremity angiography

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Extremity angiography is a test used to see the arteries in the hands, arms,
feet, or legs. It is also called peripheral angiography.

Angiography uses x-rays and a special dye to see inside the arteries. Arteries
are blood vessels that carry blood away from the heart.

## How the Test is Performed

This test is done in a hospital. You will lie on an x-ray table. You may ask
for some medicine to make you sleep and relax (sedative).

      * The health care provider will shave and clean an area, most often in the groin.
      * A numbing medicine (anesthetic) is injected into the skin over an artery.
      * A needle is placed into that artery.
      * A thin plastic tube called a catheter is passed through the needle into the artery. The doctor moves it into the area of the body being studied. The doctor can see live images of the area on a TV-like monitor, and uses them as a guide.
      * Dye flows through the catheter and into the arteries.
      * X-ray images are taken of the arteries.

Certain treatments can be done during this procedure. These treatments
include:

      * Dissolving a blood clot with medicine
      * Opening a partially blocked artery with a balloon
      * Placing a small tube called a stent into an artery to help hold it open

The health care team will check your pulse (heart rate), blood pressure, and
breathing during the procedure.

The catheter is removed when the test is done. Pressure is placed on the area
for 10 to 15 minutes to stop any bleeding. A bandage is then put on the wound.

The arm or leg where the needle was placed should be kept straight for 6 hours
after the procedure. You should avoid strenuous activity, such as heavy
lifting, for 24 to 48 hours.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You should not eat or drink anything for 6 to 8 hours before the test.

You may be told to stop taking certain medicines, such as aspirin or other
blood thinners for a short while before the test. Never stop taking any
medicines unless told to do so by your provider.

Make sure your provider knows about all the medicines you take, including
those you bought without a prescription. This includes herbs and supplements.

Tell your provider if you:

      * Are pregnant
      * Are allergic to any medicines
      * Have ever had an allergic reaction to x-ray contrast material, shellfish, or iodine substances
      * Have ever had any bleeding problems 

## How the Test will Feel

The x-ray table is hard and cold. You may want to ask for a blanket or pillow.
You may feel some stinging when the numbing medicine is injected. You may also
feel some pressure as the catheter is moved.

The dye can cause a feeling of warmth and flushing. This is normal and most
often goes away in a few seconds.

You may have tenderness and bruising at the site of the catheter insertion
after the test. Seek immediate medical help if you have:

      * Swelling
      * Bleeding that doesn't go away
      * Severe pain in an arm or leg 

## Why the Test is Performed

You may need this test if you have symptoms of a narrowed or blocked blood
vessel in the arms, hands, legs, or feet.

The test may also be done to diagnose:

      * Bleeding
      * Swelling or inflammation of the blood vessels (vasculitis) 

## Normal Results

The x-ray shows normal structures for your age.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result is commonly due to narrowing and hardening of the arteries
in the arms or legs from plaque buildup (hardening of the arteries) in the
artery walls.

The x-ray may show a blockage in the vessels caused by:

      * Aneurysms (abnormal widening or ballooning of part of an artery)
      * Blood clots
      * Other diseases of the arteries 

Abnormal results may also be due to:

      * Inflammation of the blood vessels
      * Injury to the blood vessels
      * Thromboangiitis obliterans (Buerger disease)
      * Takayasu disease

## Risks

Complications may include:

      * Allergic reaction to the contrast dye
      * Damage to the blood vessel as the needle and catheter are inserted
      * Excessive bleeding or a blood clot where the catheter is inserted, which can reduce blood flow to the leg
      * Heart attack or stroke
      * Hematoma, a collection of blood at the site of the needle puncture
      * Injury to the nerves at the needle puncture site
      * Kidney damage from the dye
      * Injury to the blood vessels being tested
      * Limb loss from problems with the procedure 

There is low-level radiation exposure. However, most experts feel that the
risk for most x-rays is low compared with benefits. Pregnant women and
children are more sensitive to the risks for the x-ray.

## Alternative Names

Angiography of the extremity; Peripheral angiography; Lower extremity
angiogram; Peripheral angiogram; Arteriography of the extremity; PAD -
angiography; Peripheral artery disease - angiography

## References

American Heart Association website. Peripheral angiogram.
www.heart.org/en/health-topics/peripheral-artery-disease/symptoms-and-
diagnosis-of-pad/peripheral-angiogram#.WFkD__l97IV. Updated October 2016.
Accessed January 18, 2019.

Desai SS, Hodgson KJ. Endovascular diagnostic technique. In: Sidawy AN, Perler
BA, eds. _Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 60.

Harisinghani MG, Chen JW, Weissleder R. Vascular imaging. In: Harisinghani MG,
Chen JW, Weissleder R, eds. _Primer of Diagnostic Imaging_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 8.

Jackson JE, Meaney JFM. Angiography: principles, techniques and complications.
In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger &
Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A Textbook of Medical Imaging_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 84.

## Review Date 10/23/2018

Updated by: Mary C. Mancini, MD, PhD, Director, Cardiothoracic Surgery,
Christus Highland Medical Center, Shreveport, LA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Atherosclerosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Atherosclerosis2_thumb.jpg)Atherosclerosis
_Read more_

![Peripheral Arterial
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeripheralArterialDisease_thumb.jpg)Peripheral
Arterial Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

