Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001450.htm    
                                Description: Alopecia areata is a condition that causes round patches of hair loss. It can lead to total hair loss.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Alopecia areata

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001450.htm

# Alopecia areata

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Alopecia areata is a condition that causes round patches of hair loss. It can
lead to total hair loss.

## Causes

Alopecia areata is thought to be an autoimmune condition. This occurs when the
immune system mistakenly attacks and destroys healthy hair follicles.

Some people with this condition have a family history of alopecia. Alopecia
areata is seen in men, women, and children. In a few people, hair loss may
occur after a major life event such as an illness, pregnancy, or trauma.

## Symptoms

Hair loss is usually the only symptom. A few people may also feel a burning
sensation or itching.

Alopecia areata usually begins as one to several (1 cm to 4 cm) patches of
hair loss. Hair loss is most often seen on the scalp. It may also occur in the
beard, eyebrows, pubic hair, and arms or legs in some people. Nail pitting may
also occur.

Patches where hair has fallen out are smooth and round in shape. They may be
peach-colored. Hairs that look like exclamation points are sometimes seen at
the edges of a bald patch.

If alopecia areata leads to total hair loss, it often occurs within 6 months
after symptoms first start.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you and ask about your symptoms,
focusing on areas where you have hair loss.

A scalp biopsy may be done. Blood tests may also be done to check for
autoimmune conditions and thyroid problems.

## Treatment

If hair loss is not widespread, the hair will often regrow in a few months
without treatment.

For more severe hair loss, it is not clear how much treatment can help change
the course of the condition.

Common treatments may include:

      * Steroid injection under the skin surface
      * Medicines applied to the skin
      * Ultraviolet light therapy 

A wig may be used to hide areas of hair loss.

## Support Groups

The following groups can provide more information on alopecia areata:

      * National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases -- www.niams.nih.gov/health-topics/alopecia-areata/advanced#tab-living-with
      * National Alopecia Areata Foundation -- www.naaf.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Full recovery of hair is common.

However, some people may have a poorer outcome, including those with:

      * Alopecia areata that starts at a young age
      * Eczema
      * Long-term alopecia
      * Widespread or complete loss of scalp or body hair

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you are concerned about hair loss.

## Alternative Names

Alopecia totalis; Alopecia universalis; Ophiasis; Hair loss - patchy

## Images

      * ![Alopecia areata with pustules](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2361t.jpg)Alopecia areata with pustules
      * ![Alopecia totalis - back view of the head](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2362t.jpg)Alopecia totalis - back view of the head
      * ![Alopecia totalis - front view of the head](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2363t.jpg)Alopecia totalis - front view of the head
      * ![Alopecia, under treatment](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2364t.jpg)Alopecia, under treatment

## References

Gawkrodger DJ, Ardern-Jones MR. Disorders of hair. In: Gawkrodger DJ, Ardern-
Jones MR, eds. _Dermatology: An Illustrated Colour Text_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 35.

Habif TP. Hair diseases. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical Dermatology: A Color
Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
24.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hair Loss](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HairLoss_thumb.jpg)Hair Loss _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

