Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001177.htm    
                                Description: Male pattern baldness is the most common type of hair loss in men.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Male pattern baldness

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001177.htm

# Male pattern baldness

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Male pattern baldness is the most common type of hair loss in men.

## Causes

Male pattern baldness is related to your genes and male sex hormones. It
usually follows a pattern of receding hairline and hair thinning on the crown.

Each strand of hair sits in a tiny hole (cavity) in the skin called a
follicle. Generally, baldness occurs when the hair follicle shrinks over time,
resulting in shorter and finer hair. Eventually, the follicle does not grow
new hair. The follicles remain alive, which suggests that it is still possible
to grow new hair.

## Symptoms

The typical pattern of male baldness begins at the hairline. The hairline
gradually moves backward (recedes) and forms an "M" shape. Eventually the hair
becomes finer, shorter, and thinner, and creates a U-shaped (or horseshoe)
pattern of hair around the sides of the head.

## Exams and Tests

Classic male pattern baldness is usually diagnosed based on the appearance and
pattern of the hair loss.

Hair loss may be due to other conditions. This may be true if hair loss occurs
in patches, you shed a lot of hair, your hair breaks, or you have hair loss
along with redness, scaling, pus, or pain.

A skin biopsy, blood tests, or other procedures may be needed to diagnose
other disorders that cause hair loss.

Hair analysis is not accurate for diagnosing hair loss due to nutritional or
similar disorders. But it may reveal substances such as arsenic or lead.

## Treatment

Treatment is not necessary if you are comfortable with your appearance. Hair
weaving, hairpieces, or change of hairstyle may disguise the hair loss. This
is usually the least expensive and safest approach for male baldness.

Medicines that treat male pattern baldness include:

      * Minoxidil (Rogaine), a solution that is applied directly to the scalp to stimulate the hair follicles. It slows hair loss for many men, and some men grow new hair. Hair loss returns when you stop using this medicine.
      * Finasteride (Propecia, Proscar), a pill that interferes with the production ofÂ a highly active form of testosterone that is linked to baldness. It slows hair loss. It works slightly better than minoxidil. Hair loss returns when you stop using this medicine.
      * Dutasteride is similar to finasteride, but may be more effective.

Hair transplants consist of removing tiny plugs of hair from areas where the
hair is continuing to grow and placing them in areas that are balding. This
can cause minor scarring and possibly, infection. The procedure usually
requires multiple sessions and may be expensive.

Suturing hair pieces to the scalp is not recommended. It can result in scars,
infections, and abscess of the scalp. The use of hair implants made of
artificial fibers was banned by the FDA because of the high rate of infection.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Male pattern baldness does not indicate a medical disorder, but it may affect
self-esteem or cause anxiety. The hair loss is usually permanent.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

      * Your hair loss occurs in an atypical pattern, including rapid hair loss, widespread shedding, hair loss in patches, or hair breakage.
      * Your hair loss occurs with itching, skin irritation, redness, scaling, pain, or other symptoms.
      * Your hair loss begins after starting a medicine.
      * You want to treat your hair loss.

## Alternative Names

Alopecia in men; Baldness - male; Hair loss in men; Androgenetic alopecia

## Images

      * ![Male pattern baldness](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17083t.jpg)Male pattern baldness
      * ![Hair follicle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19647t.jpg)Hair follicle

## References

Fisher J. Hair restoration. In: Rubin JP, Neligan PC, eds. _Plastic Surgery,
Volume 2: Aesthetic Surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
21.

Habif TP. Hair diseases. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical Dermatology: A Color
Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
24.

Sperling LC, Sinclair RD, El Shabrawi-Caelen L. Alopecias. In: Bolognia JL,
Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2018:chap 69.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hair Loss](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HairLoss_thumb.jpg)Hair Loss _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

