Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003246.htm    
                                Description: Partial or complete loss of hair is called alopecia.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hair loss

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003246.htm

# Hair loss

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Partial or complete loss of hair is called alopecia.

## Considerations

Hair loss usually develops gradually. It may be patchy or all over (diffuse).
Normally, you lose roughly 100 hairs from your head every day. The scalp
contains about 100,000 hairs.

## Causes

HEREDITY

Both men and women tend to lose hair thickness and amount as they age. This
type of baldness is not usually caused by a disease. It is related to aging,
heredity, and changes in the hormone testosterone. Inherited, or pattern
baldness, affects many more men than women. Male pattern baldness can occur at
any time after puberty. About 80% of men show signs of male pattern baldness
by age 70 years.

PHYSICAL OR EMOTIONAL STRESS

Physical or emotional stress may cause one half to three quarters of scalp
hair to shed. This kind of hair loss is called telogen effluvium. Hair tends
to come out in handfuls while you shampoo, comb, or run your hands through
your hair. You may not notice this for weeks to months after the episode of
stress. Hair shedding decreases over 6 to 8 months. Telogen effluvium is
usually temporary. But it can become long-term (chronic).

Causes of this type of hair loss are:

      * High fever or severe infection
      * Childbirth
      * Major surgery, major illness, sudden blood loss
      * Severe emotional stress
      * Crash diets, especially those that do not contain enough protein
      * Drugs, including retinoids, birth control pills, beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers, certain antidepressants, NSAIDs (including ibuprofen) 

Some women ages 30 to 60 years may notice a thinning of the hair that affects
the entire scalp. The hair loss may be heavier at first, and then gradually
slow or stop. There is no known cause for this type of telogen effluvium.

OTHER CAUSES

Other causes of hair loss, especially if it is in an unusual pattern, include:

      * Alopecia areata (bald patches on the scalp, beard, and, possibly, eyebrows; eyelashes may fall out)
      * Anemia
      * Autoimmune conditions such as lupus
      * Burns
      * Certain infectious diseases such as syphilis
      * Excessive shampooing and blow-drying
      * Hormone changes
      * Thyroid diseases
      * Nervous habits such as continual hair pulling or scalp rubbing
      * Radiation therapy
      * Tinea capitis (ringworm of the scalp)
      * Tumor of the ovary or adrenal glands
      * Hair styles that put too much tension on the hair follicles
      * Bacterial infections of the scalp 

## Home Care

Hair loss from menopause or childbirth often goes away after 6 months to 2
years.

For hair loss due to illness (such as fever), radiation therapy, medicine use,
or other causes, no treatment is needed. Hair usually grows back when the
illness ends or the therapy is finished. You may want to wear a wig, hat, or
other covering until the hair grows back.

Hair weaves, hair pieces, or changes of hair style may disguise hair loss.
This is generally the least expensive and safest approach to hair loss. Hair
pieces should not be sutured (sewn) to the scalp because of the risk for scars
and infection.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have any of the following:

      * Losing hair in an unusual pattern
      * Losing hair rapidly or at an early age (for example, in your teens or twenties)
      * Pain or itching with the hair loss
      * The skin on your scalp under the involved area is red, scaly, or otherwise abnormal
      * Acne, facial hair, or an abnormal menstrual cycle
      * You are a woman and have male pattern baldness
      * Bald spots on your beard or eyebrows
      * Weight gain or muscle weakness, intolerance to cold temperatures, or fatigue
      * Areas of infection on your scalp

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

A careful medical history and examination of the hair and scalp are usually
enough to diagnose the cause of your hair loss.

Your provider will ask detailed questions about:

      * Symptoms of your hair loss. If there is a pattern to your hair loss or if you are losing hair from other parts of your body as well, if other family members have hair loss.
      * How you care for your hair. How often you shampoo and blow dry or if you use hair products.
      * Your emotional well-being and if you are under a lot of physical or emotional stress
      * Your diet, if you have made recent changes
      * Recent illnesses such as a high fever or any surgeries

Tests that may be performed (but are rarely needed) include:

      * Blood tests to rule out disease
      * Microscopic examination of a plucked hair
      * Skin biopsyÂ of the scalp

If you have ringworm on the scalp, you may be prescribed an antifungal shampoo
and oral medicine for you to take. Applying creams and lotions may not get
into the hair follicles to kill the fungus.

Your provider may advise you to use a solution, such as Minoxidil that is
applied to the scalp to stimulate hair growth. Other medicines, such as
hormones, may be prescribed to decrease hair loss and promote hair growth.
Drugs such as finasteride and dutasteride can be taken by men to decrease hair
loss and grow new hair.

If you have a certain vitamin deficiency, your provider will likely recommend
that you take a supplement.

Hair transplant may also be recommended.

## Alternative Names

Loss of hair; Alopecia; Baldness; Scarring alopecia; Non-scarring alopecia

## Images

      * ![Hair follicle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19647t.jpg)Hair follicle
      * ![Ringworm, tinea capitis - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2351t.jpg)Ringworm, tinea capitis - close-up
      * ![Alopecia areata with pustules](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2361t.jpg)Alopecia areata with pustules
      * ![Alopecia totalis - back view of the head](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2362t.jpg)Alopecia totalis - back view of the head
      * ![Alopecia totalis - front view of the head](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2363t.jpg)Alopecia totalis - front view of the head
      * ![Alopecia, under treatment](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2364t.jpg)Alopecia, under treatment
      * ![Trichotillomania - top of the head](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2365t.jpg)Trichotillomania - top of the head
      * ![Folliculitis - decalvans on the scalp](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2423t.jpg)Folliculitis - decalvans on the scalp

## References

Phillips TG, Slomiany WP, Allison R. Hair loss: common causes and treatment.
_Am Fam Physician_. 2017;96(6):371-378. PMID: 28925637
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28925637.

Sperling LC, Sinclair RD, El Shabrawi-Caelen L. Alopecias. In: Bolognia JL,
Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 69.

Tosti A. Diseases of hair and nails. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 442.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hair Loss](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HairLoss_thumb.jpg)Hair Loss _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

