Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007205.htm    
                                Description: A hair transplant is a surgical procedure to improve baldness.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hair transplant

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007205.htm

# Hair transplant

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A hair transplant is a surgical procedure to improve baldness.

## Description

During a hair transplant, hairs are moved from an area of thick growth to bald
areas.

Most hair transplants are done in a doctor's office. The procedure is
performed as follows:

      * You receive local anesthesia to numb the scalp. You may also receive medicine to relax you.
      * Your scalp is thoroughly cleaned.
      * A strip of your hairy scalp is removed using a scalpel (surgical knife) and set aside. This area of your scalp is called the donor area. The scalp is closed using tiny stitches.
      * Small groups of hairs, or individual hairs, are carefully separated out from the removed scalp.
      * In some cases, smaller areas of the scalp and groups of hairs are removed with other equipment or robotic assistance.
      * The bald areas that will receive these healthy hairs are cleaned. These areas of your scalp are called the recipient areas.
      * Tiny cuts are made in the bald area.
      * Healthy hairs are carefully placed in the cuts. During a single treatment session, hundreds or even thousands of hairs may be transplanted. 

## Why the Procedure is Performed

A hair transplant can improve the appearance and self-confidence in people who
are balding. This procedure cannot create new hair. It can only move the hair
you already have to the areas that are bald.

Most people who have a hair transplant have male or female pattern baldness.
Hair loss is on the front or top of the scalp. You must still have thick hair
on the back or sides of the scalp to have enough hair follicles to move.

In some cases, people with hair loss from lupus, injuries, or other medical
problems are treated with a hair transplant.

## Risks

Risks of surgery in general include:

      * Bleeding
      * Infection 

Other risks that can occur with this procedure:

      * Scarring
      * Unnatural-looking tufts of new hair growth 

It is possible that the transplanted hair will not look as good as you had
desired.

If you plan to have a hair transplant, you should be in good health. This is
because surgery is less likely to be safe and successful if your health is
poor. Discuss your risks and options with your doctor before undergoing this
procedure.

## After the Procedure

Follow the doctor's instructions about caring for your scalp and any other
self-care measures. This is especially important to ensure healing.

For a day or two after the procedure, you may have a large surgical dressing
or a smaller dressing that can be protected by a baseball cap.

During the recovery period after surgery, your scalp may be very tender. You
may need to take pain medicines. The hair grafts may appear to fall out, but
they will regrow.

You may also need to take antibiotics or anti-inflammatory medicines after
surgery.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most hair transplants result in excellent hair growth within several months
after the procedure. More than one treatment session may be needed to create
best results.

The replaced hairs are mostly permanent. No long-term care is necessary.

## Alternative Names

Hair restoration; Hair replacement

## Images

      * ![Skin layers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8912t.jpg)Skin layers

## References

Avram MR, Keene SA, Stough DB, Rogers NE, Cole JP. Hair restoration. In:
Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 157.

Fisher J. Hair restoration. In: Rubin JP, Neligan PC, eds. _Plastic Surgery,
Volume 2: Aesthetic surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
21.

## Review Date 1/30/2019

Updated by: David A. Lickstein, MD, FACS, specializing in cosmetic and
reconstructive plastic surgery, Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hair Loss](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HairLoss_thumb.jpg)Hair Loss _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

