Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007288.htm    
                                Description: Limb plethysmography is a test that compares blood pressure in the legs and arms.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Limb plethysmography

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007288.htm

# Limb plethysmography

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Limb plethysmography is a test that compares blood pressure in the legs and
arms.

## How the Test is Performed

This test may be done in the health care provider's office or in a hospital.
You will be asked to lie with the upper part of your body slightly raised.

Three or four blood pressure cuffs are wrapped snugly around your arm and leg.
The provider inflates the cuffs, and a machine called a plethysmograph
measures the pulses from each cuff. The test records the maximum pressure
produced when the heart contracts (systolic blood pressure).

Differences between the pulses are noted. If there is a decrease in the pulse
between the arm and leg, it may indicate a blockage.

When the test is complete, the blood pressure cuffs are removed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Do not smoke for at least 30 minutes before the test. You will be asked to
remove all clothing from the arm and leg being tested.

## How the Test will Feel

You should not have much discomfort with this test. You should only feel the
pressure of the blood pressure cuff. The test often takes less than 20 to 30
minutes to perform.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is most often done to check for narrowing or blockages of blood
vessels (arteries) in the arms or legs.

## Normal Results

There should be less than a 20 to 30 mm Hg difference in the systolic blood
pressure of the leg compared with that of the arm.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

      * Arterial occlusive disease
      * Blood clots
      * Blood vessel changes due to diabetes
      * Injury to an artery
      * Other blood vessel disease (vascular disease)

Other conditions for which the test may be performed:

      * Deep venous thrombosis

If you have an abnormal result, you may need to have more testing to find the
exact site of the narrowing.

## Risks

There are no risks.

## Considerations

This test is not as accurate as an arteriography. Plethysmography may be done
for very ill people who cannot travel to the arteriography lab. This test can
be used to screen for vascular disease or to follow up earlier abnormal tests.

The test is noninvasive, and it does not use x-rays or injection of dye. It is
also less expensive than an angiogram.

## Alternative Names

Plethysmography - limb

## References

Creager MA, Libby P. Peripheral artery diseases. In: Mann DL, Zipes DP, Libby
P, Bonow RO, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of
Cardiovascular Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 58.

Tang GL, Kohler TR. Vascular laboratory: arterial physiologic assessment. In:
Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds. _Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular
Therapy_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 20.

## Review Date 6/10/2018

Updated by: Deepak Sudheendra, MD, FSIR, RPVI, Assistant Professor of
Interventional Radiology & Surgery at the University of Pennsylvania Perelman
School of Medicine, with an expertise in Vascular Interventional Radiology &
Surgical Critical Care, Philadelphia, PA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Deep Vein
Thrombosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DeepVeinThrombosis_thumb.jpg)Deep
Vein Thrombosis _Read more_

![Peripheral Arterial
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeripheralArterialDisease_thumb.jpg)Peripheral
Arterial Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

