Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000172.htm    
                                Description: Thromboangiitis obliterans is a rare disease in which blood vessels of the hands and feet become blocked.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Thromboangiitis obliterans

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000172.htm

# Thromboangiitis obliterans

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Thromboangiitis obliterans is a rare disease in which blood vessels of the
hands and feet become blocked.

## Causes

Thromboangiitis obliterans (Buerger disease) is caused by small blood vessels
that become inflamed and swollen. The blood vessels then narrow or get blocked
by blood clots (thrombosis). Blood vessels of the hands and feet are mostly
affected. Arteries are more affected than veins. Average age when symptoms
begin is around 35. Women and older adults are affected less often.

This condition mostly affects young men ages 20 to 45 who are heavy smokers or
chew tobacco. Female smokers may also be affected. The condition affects more
people in the Middle East, Asia, the Mediterranean, and Eastern Europe. Many
people with this problem have poor dental health, most likely due to tobacco
use.

## Symptoms

Symptoms most often affect 2 or more limbs and may include:

      * Fingers or toes that appear pale, red, or bluish and feel cold to the touch.
      * Sudden severe pain in the hands and feet. The pain may feel like a burning or tingling.
      * Pain in the hands and feet that most often occurs when at rest. The pain may be worse when the hands and feet get cold or during emotional stress.
      * Pain in the legs, ankles, or feet when walking (intermittent claudication). The pain is often located in the arch of the foot.
      * Skin changes or small painful ulcers on the fingers or toes.
      * Occasionally, arthritis in the wrists or knees develops before the blood vessels become blocked.

## Exams and Tests

The following tests may show blockage of blood vessels in the affected hands
or feet:

      * Ultrasound of the blood vessels in the extremity, called plethysmography
      * Doppler ultrasound of the extremity
      * Catheter-based x-ray arteriogram 

Blood tests for other causes of inflamed blood vessels (vasculitis) and
blocked (occlusion of) blood vessels may be done. These causes include
diabetes, scleroderma, vasculitis, hypercoagulability, and atherosclerosis.
There are no blood tests that diagnose thromboangiitis obliterans.

A heart echocardiogram may be done to look for sources of blood clots. In rare
cases when the diagnosis is unclear, a biopsy of the blood vessel is done.

## Treatment

There is no cure for thromboangiitis obliterans. The goal of treatment is to
control symptoms and prevent the disease from getting worse.

Stopping tobacco use of any kind is key to controlling the disease. Smoking
cessation treatments are strongly recommended. It is also important to avoid
cold temperatures and other conditions that reduce blood flow in the hands and
feet.

Applying warmth and doing gentle exercises can help increase circulation.

Aspirin and medicines that open the blood vessels (vasodilators) may help. In
very bad cases, surgery to cut the nerves to the area (surgical sympathectomy)
can help control pain. Rarely, bypass surgery is considered in certain people.

It may become necessary to amputate the fingers or toes if the area becomes
very infected and tissue dies.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Symptoms of thromboangiitis obliterans may go away if the person stops tobacco
use. People who continue to use tobacco may need repeated amputations.

## Possible Complications

Complications include:

      * Tissue death (gangrene)
      * Amputation of fingers or toes
      * Loss of blood flow in the limb of the affected fingers or toes 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

      * You have symptoms of thromboangiitis obliterans.
      * You have thromboangiitis obliterans and symptoms get worse, even with treatment.
      * You develop new symptoms.

## Prevention

People with a history of Raynaud phenomenon or blue, painful fingers or toes,
especially with ulcers, should not use any form of tobacco.

## Alternative Names

Buerger disease

## Images

      * ![Thromboangiites obliterans](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18089t.jpg)Thromboangiites obliterans
      * ![Circulatory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8747t.jpg)Circulatory system

## References

Akar AR, Inan B. Thromboangiitis obliterans (Buerger disease). In: Sidawy AN,
Perler BA, eds. _Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 138.

Shaw P, Bailey IB, Gahtan V. Buerger's disease (Thromboangiitis obliterans).
In: Cameron JL, Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:1067-1070.

Stone JH. The systemic vasculitides. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 270.

## Review Date 7/10/2018

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, ABIM Board Certified in Rheumatology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Peripheral Arterial
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeripheralArterialDisease_thumb.jpg)Peripheral
Arterial Disease _Read more_

![Raynaud's
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RaynaudsDisease_thumb.jpg)Raynaud's
Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

