Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000577.htm    
                                Description: Peripheral artery disease (PAD) is a narrowing of the blood vessels that bring blood to the legs and feet. It can occur when cholesterol and other fatty material (atherosclerotic plaque) build-up on the    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Peripheral artery disease of the legs - self-care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000577.htm

# Peripheral artery disease of the legs - self-care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Peripheral artery disease (PAD) is a narrowing of the blood vessels that bring
blood to the legs and feet. It can occur when cholesterol and other fatty
material (atherosclerotic plaque) build-up on the walls of your arteries.

PAD is mostly seen in people above 65 years of age. Diabetes, smoking, and
high blood pressure increase the risk for PAD.

The symptoms of PAD include cramps in the legs mostly during physical
activities (intermittent claudication). In severe cases, there may also be
pain when the leg is at rest.

Managing the risk factors can reduce the risk of further cardiovascular
damage. Treatment mainly includes medicines and rehabilitation. In severe
case, surgery may also be done.

## Walking Improves Blood Flow

A regular walking program will improve blood flow as new, small blood vessels
form. The walking program is mainly as follows:

      * Warm up by walking at a pace that does not cause your normal leg symptoms.
      * Then walk to the point of mild-to-moderate pain or discomfort.
      * Rest until the pain goes away, then try walking again.

Your goal over time is to be able to walk 30 to 60 minutes. Always talk with
your health care provider before you start an exercise program. Call your
provider right away if you have any of these symptoms during or after
exercise:

      * Chest pain
      * Breathing problems
      * Dizziness
      * An uneven heart rate

Make simple changes to add walking to your day.

      * At work, try taking the stairs instead of the elevator, take a 5-minute walk break every hour, or add a 10- to 20-minute walk during lunch.
      * Try parking at the far end of the parking lot, or even down the street. Even better, try walking to the store.
      * If you ride the bus, get off the bus 1 stop before your normal stop and walk the rest of the way. 

## Lifestyle Changes

Stop smoking. Smoking narrows your arteries and increases the risk for
atherosclerotic plaque or blood clots forming. Other things you can do to stay
as healthy as possible are to:

      * Make sure your blood pressure is well-controlled.
      * Reduce your weight, if you are overweight.
      * Eat a low-cholesterol and low-fat diet.
      * Test your blood sugar if you have diabetes, and keep it under control. 

## Take Care of Your Feet

Check your feet every day. Inspect the tops, sides, soles, heels, and between
your toes. If you have vision problems, ask someone to check your feet for
you. Use a moisturizer to keep your skin healthier. Look for:

      * Dry or cracked skin
      * Blisters or sores
      * Bruises or cuts
      * Redness, warmth, or tenderness
      * Firm or hard spots

Call your provider right way about any foot problems. DO NOT try to treat them
yourself first.

##  What Else?

If you are taking medicines for high blood pressure, high cholesterol, or
diabetes, take them as prescribed. If you are not taking medicine for a high
cholesterol, ask your provider about them as they may still help you even if
your cholesterol is not high.

Your provider may prescribe the following medicines to control your peripheral
artery disease:

      * Aspirin or a medicine called clopidogrel (Plavix), which keeps your blood from forming clots
      * Cilostazol, a medicine that widens (dilates) the blood vessels 

DO NOT stop taking these medicines without first talking with your provider.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have:

      * A leg or foot that is cool to the touch, pale, blue, or numb
      * Chest pain or shortness of breath when you have leg pain
      * Leg pain that does not go away, even when you are not walking or moving (called rest pain)
      * Legs that are red, hot, or swollen
      * New sores on your legs or feet
      * Signs of infection (fever, sweats, red and painful skin, general ill feeling)
      * Sores that do not heal

## Alternative Names

Peripheral vascular disease - self-care; Intermittent claudication - self-care

## References

Bonaca MP, Creager MA. Peripheral artery diseases. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 64.

Kullo IJ. Peripheral artery disease. In: Kellerman RD, Rakel DP, eds. _Conn's
Current Therapy 2019_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:141-145.

Simons JP, Robinson WP, Schanzer A. Lower extremity arterial disease: medical
management and decision making. In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds. _Rutherford's
Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 105.

## Review Date 10/13/2018

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Peripheral Arterial Disease

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

