Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000239.htm    
                                Description: Peripheral artery bypass surgery is done to re-route the blood supply around a blocked artery in the leg. You had this surgery because fatty deposits in your arteries were blocking blood flow. This caused    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Peripheral artery bypass - leg - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000239.htm

# Peripheral artery bypass - leg - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Peripheral artery bypass surgery is done to re-route the blood supply around a
blocked artery in the leg. You had this surgery because fatty deposits in your
arteries were blocking blood flow. This caused symptoms of pain and heaviness
in your leg that made walking difficult. This article tells you how to take
care of yourself after leaving the hospital.

## When Youâre in the Hospital

You had peripheral artery bypass surgery to re-route the blood supply around a
blocked artery in one of your legs.

Your surgeon made an incision (cut) over the area where the artery was
blocked. This may have been in your leg or groin, or the lower part of your
belly. Clamps were placed over the artery at each end of the blocked section.
A special tube called a graft was sewn into the artery to replace the blocked
part.

You may have stayed in the intensive care unit (ICU) for 1 to 3 days after
surgery. After that, you stayed in a regular hospital room.

## What to Expect at Home

Your incision may be sore for several days. You should be able to walk farther
now without needing to rest. Full recovery from surgery may take 6 to 8 weeks.

## Activity

Walk short distances 3 to 4 times a day. Slowly increase how far you walk each
time.

When you are resting, keep your leg raised above the level of your heart to
prevent leg swelling:

      * Lie down and place a pillow under the lower part of your leg.
      * DO NOT sit for more than 1 hour at a time when you first come home. If you can, raise your feet and legs when you are sitting. Rest them on another chair or a stool. 

You will have more leg swelling after walking or sitting. If you have a lot of
swelling, you may be doing too much walking or sitting, or eating too much
salt in your diet.

When you climb stairs, use your good leg first when you go up. Use your leg
that had surgery first when you go down. Rest after taking several steps.

Your health care provider will tell you when you can drive. You may take short
trips as a passenger, but try to sit in the backseat with your leg that had
surgery raised up on the seat.

## Wound Care

If your staples have been removed, you will probably have Steri-Strips (small
pieces of tape) across your incision. Wear loose clothing that does not rub
against your incision.

You may shower or get the incision wet, once your doctor says you can. DO NOT
soak, scrub, or have the shower beat directly on them. If you have Steri-
Strips, they will curl up and fall off on their own after a week.

DO NOT soak in the bath tub, a hot tub, or swimming pool. Ask your provider
when you can start doing these activities again.

Your provider will tell you how often to change your dressing (bandage) and
when you may stop using one. Keep your wound dry. If your incision goes to
your groin, keep a dry gauze pad over it to keep it dry.

      * Clean your incision with soap and water every day once your provider says you can. Look carefully for any changes. Gently pat it dry.
      * DO NOT put any lotion, cream, or herbal remedy on your wound without asking first if that is ok. 

## Self-care

Bypass surgery does not cure the cause of the blockage in your arteries. Your
arteries may become narrow again.

      * Eat a heart-healthy diet, exercise, stop smoking (if you smoke), and reduce your stress. Doing these things will help lower your chances of having a blocked artery again.
      * Your health care provider may give you medicine to help lower your cholesterol.
      * If you are taking medicines for high blood pressure or diabetes, take them as you have been told to take them.
      * Your provider may ask you to take aspirin or a medicine called clopidogrel (Plavix) when you go home. These medicines keep your blood from forming clots in your arteries. DO NOT stop taking them without talking with your provider first. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your health care provider if:

      * Your leg that had surgery changes color or becomes cool to touch, pale, or numb
      * You have chest pain, dizziness, problems thinking clearly, or shortness of breath that does not go away when you rest
      * You are coughing up blood or yellow or green mucus
      * You have chills
      * You have a fever over 101Â°F (38.3Â°C)
      * Your belly hurts or is bloated
      * The edges of your surgical incision are pulling apart
      * There are signs of infection around the incision such as redness, pain, warmth, welling, or greenish discharge
      * The bandage is soaked with blood
      * Your legs are swelling

## Alternative Names

Aortobifemoral bypass - discharge; Femoropopliteal - discharge; Femoral
popliteal - discharge; Aorta-bifemoral bypass - discharge; Axillo-bifemoral
bypass - discharge; Ilio-bifemoral bypass - discharge

## References

Bonaca MP, Creager MA. Peripheral artery diseases. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 64.

Fakhry F, Spronk S, van der Laan L, et al. Endovascular revascularization and
supervised exercise for peripheral artery disease and intermittent
claudication: a randomized clinical trial. _JAMA_. 2015;314(18):1936-1944.
PMID: 26547465 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26547465.

Gerhard-Herman MD, Gornik HL, Barrett C, et al. 2016 AHA/ACC guideline on the
management of patients with lower extremity peripheral artery disease:
executive summary: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American
Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. _Circulation_.
2017;135:e686-e725. PMID: 27840332 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27840332.

Kinlay S, Bhatt DL. Treatment of noncoronary obstructive vascular disease. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 66.

## Read More

      * Angioplasty and stent placement - peripheral arteries
      * Peripheral artery bypass - leg
      * Peripheral artery disease - legs
      * Tips on how to quit smoking

## Patient Instructions

      * Angioplasty and stent placement - peripheral arteries - discharge 
      * Antiplatelet drugs - P2Y12 inhibitors
      * Aspirin and heart disease
      * Cholesterol and lifestyle
      * Cholesterol - drug treatment
      * Controlling your high blood pressure

## Review Date 1/28/2019

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Peripheral Arterial Disease

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

