Link: https://medlineplus.gov/hepatitisb.html    
                                Description: Hepatitis B virus is a contagious liver infection spread from person-to-person via blood or body fluids. Who is at risk for HBV? Read about it here.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Hepatitis B

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/hepatitisb.html

#  Hepatitis B

Also called: HBV

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues

### See, Play and Learn

    * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Men
    * Women
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Your liver is the largest organ inside your body. It helps your body digest
food, store energy, and remove poisons. Hepatitis is an inflammation of the
liver. One type, hepatitis B, is caused by the hepatitis B virus (HBV).
Hepatitis B spreads by contact with an infected person's blood, semen, or
other body fluid. An infected woman can give hepatitis B to her baby at birth.

If you get HBV, you may feel as if you have the flu. You may also have
jaundice, a yellowing of skin and eyes, dark-colored urine, and pale bowel
movements. Some people have no symptoms at all. A blood test can tell if you
have it. HBV usually gets better on its own after a few months. If it does not
get better, it is called chronic HBV, which lasts a lifetime. Chronic HBV can
lead to cirrhosis (scarring of the liver), liver failure, or liver cancer.

There is a vaccine for HBV. It requires three shots. All babies should get the
vaccine, but older children and adults can get it too. If you travel to
countries where Hepatitis B is common, you should get the vaccine.

NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Start Here

    * Hepatitis B (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Hepatitis B (Department of Veterans Affairs)
    * Hepatitis B ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
    * Hepatitis B FAQs for the Public (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Hepatitis B Test (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
    * Hepatitis Testing: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Liver Function Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Screening for Hepatitis B Virus Infection in Nonpregnant Adolescents and Adults (U.S. Preventive Services Task Force) \- PDF

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Facts about Hepatitis B for Adults (National Foundation for Infectious Diseases)
    * Hepatitis B Vaccine: What You Need to Know (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF
    * Prevention Tips (Hepatitis B Foundation)

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Approved Drugs for Adults (Hepatitis B Foundation)
    * Treatment Options (Hepatitis B Foundation) \- PDF

## Living With

    * Adults Living with Hepatitis B (Hepatitis B Foundation)
    * If You Have Chronic Hepatitis B Virus (HBV) Infection (Immunization Action Coalition) \- PDF

## Related Issues

    * Diabetes and Hepatitis B Vaccination (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Hepatitis B & C and HIV (AIDS.gov)
    * Hepatitis B Vaccine and Multiple Sclerosis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Hepatitis B: What Asian and Pacific Islander Americans Need to Know ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
    * HIV and Hepatitis B ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo) Also in Spanish
    * HIV/AIDS Coinfection (Hepatitis B Foundation)
    * Know HBV: What Every Asian and Pacific Islander Should Know About Hepatitis B and Liver Cancer (Stanford University, Asian Liver Center) \- PDF
    * Know Hepatitis B Questions and Answers for Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders (AAPIs) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Liver Cancer and Hepatitis B (Hepatitis B Foundation)
    * Travelers' Health: Hepatitis B (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * When Someone Close to You Has Chronic Hepatitis B (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF

## Videos and Tutorials

    * One Family's Struggles with Hepatitis B ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Parents of Kids with Infectious Diseases)

## Statistics and Research

    * FastStats: Viral Hepatitis (National Center for Health Statistics)
    * Surveillance for Viral Hepatitis - United States, 2014 (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hepatitis B ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Association of Aspirin with Hepatocellular Carcinoma and Liver-Related Mortality.
    * Article: Anti-HBc impacts on the risk of hepatitis B reactivation but not...
    * Article: Incidence of hepatitis B virus infection among human immunodeficiency virus-infected treatment...
    * Hepatitis B -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * Hepatitis B Foundation Newsletter: B Informed (Hepatitis B Foundation)

## Find an Expert

    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
    * Hepatitis B Foundation
    * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
    * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * Advice for Parents (Hepatitis B Foundation)
    * Brief Introduction to Hepatitis B for Parents of Adopted Children (Immunization Action Coalition) \- PDF
    * Hepatitis (Nemours Foundation)
    * Hepatitis B Shots Are Recommended for All New Babies (Immunization Action Coalition) \- PDF

## Teenagers

    * Hepatitis B (HBV) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Men

    * Protect Yourself against Hepatitis A and B: A Guide for Gay and Bisexual Men (Immunization Action Coalition) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Women

    * Protect Your Baby for Life: When a Pregnant Woman Has Hepatitis B (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF

## Patient Handouts

    * Hepatitis B (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Hepatitis B ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
    * Hepatitis B -- children (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Hepatitis B Vaccine: What You Need to Know (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF
    * Hepatitis virus panel (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Preventing hepatitis B or C (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Hepatitis B](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HepatitisB2.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Acrodermatitis
    * Delta agent (Hepatitis D)
    * Hepatitis B
    * Hepatitis B -- children
    * Hepatitis virus panel
    * Preventing hepatitis B or C

## Related Health Topics

    * Hepatitis
    * Hepatitis A
    * Hepatitis C
    * Hepatitis Testing

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Hepatitis B is the National
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Hepatitis B_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 18 November 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

