Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000170.htm    
                                Description: Peripheral artery disease (PAD) is a condition of the blood vessels that supply the legs and feet. It occurs due to narrowing of the arteries in the legs. This causes decreased blood flow, which can injure    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Peripheral artery disease - legs

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000170.htm

# Peripheral artery disease - legs

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Peripheral artery disease (PAD) is a condition of the blood vessels that
supply the legs and feet. It occurs due to narrowing of the arteries in the
legs. This causes decreased blood flow, which can injure nerves and other
tissues.

## Causes

PAD is caused by atherosclerosis. This problem occurs when fatty material
(plaque) builds up on the walls of your arteries and makes them narrower. The
walls of the arteries also become stiffer and cannot widen (dilate) to allow
greater blood flow when needed.

![Arteriosclerosis of the
extremities](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18077.jpg)

As a result, the muscles of your legs cannot get enough blood and oxygen when
they are working harder (such as during exercise or walking). If PAD becomes
severe, there may not be enough blood and oxygen, even when the muscles are
resting.

PAD is a common disorder. It most often affects men over age 50, but women can
have it as well. People are at higher risk if they have a history of:

      * Abnormal cholesterol
      * Diabetes
      * Heart disease (coronary artery disease)
      * High blood pressure (hypertension)
      * Kidney disease involving hemodialysis
      * Smoking
      * Stroke (cerebrovascular disease) 

## Symptoms

The main symptoms of PAD are pain, achiness, fatigue, burning, or discomfort
in the muscles of your feet, calves, or thighs. These symptoms most often
appear during walking or exercise, and go away after several minutes of rest.

      * At first, these symptoms may appear only when you walk uphill, walk faster, or walk for longer distances.
      * Slowly, these symptoms occur more quickly and with less exercise.
      * Your legs or feet may feel numb when you are at rest. The legs also may feel cool to the touch, and the skin may look pale. 

When PAD becomes severe, you may have:

      * Impotence
      * Pain and cramps at night
      * Pain or tingling in the feet or toes, which can be so severe that even the weight of clothes or bed sheets is painful
      * Pain that is worse when you elevateÂ your legs, and improves when you dangle your legs over the side of the bed
      * Skin that looks dark and blue
      * Sores that do not heal 

## Exams and Tests

During an exam, the health care provider may find:

      * A whooshing sound when the stethoscope is held over the artery (arterial bruits)
      * Decreased blood pressure in the affected limb
      * Weak or absent pulses in the limb 

When PAD is more severe, findings may include:

      * Calf muscles that shrink (wither or atrophy)
      * Hair loss over the legs, feet, and toes
      * Painful, non-bleeding sores on the feet or toes (most often black) that are slow to heal
      * Paleness of the skin or blue color in the toes or foot (cyanosis)
      * Shiny, tight skin
      * Thick toenails 

Blood tests may show high cholesterol or diabetes.

Tests for PAD include:

      * Angiography of the legs
      * Blood pressure measured in the arms and legs for comparison (ankle/brachial index, or ABI)
      * Doppler ultrasound exam of an extremity
      * Magnetic resonance angiography or CT angiography 

## Treatment

Things you can do to control PAD include:

      * Balance exercise with rest. Walk or do another activity to the point of pain and alternate it with rest periods. Over time, your circulation may improve as new, small blood vessels form. Always talk to the provider before starting an exercise program.
      * Stop smoking. Smoking narrows the arteries, decreases the bloodâs ability to carry oxygen, and increases the risk of forming clots (thrombi and emboli).
      * Take care of your feet, especially if you also have diabetes. Wear shoes that fit properly. Pay attention to any cuts, scrapes, or injuries, and see your provider right away. Tissues heal slowly and are more likely to get infected when there is decreased circulation.
      * Make sure your blood pressure is well-controlled.
      * If you are overweight, reduce your weight.
      * If your cholesterol is high, eat a low-cholesterol and low-fat diet.
      * Monitor your blood sugar level if you have diabetes, and keep it under control. 

Medicines may be needed to control the disorder, including:

      * Aspirin or a medicine called clopidogrel (Plavix), which keeps your blood from forming clots in your arteries. DO NOT stop taking these medicines without first talking with your provider.
      * Cilostazol, a drug that works to enlarge (dilate) the affected artery or arteries for moderate-to-severe cases that are not candidates for surgery.
      * Medicine to help lower your cholesterol.
      * Pain relievers. 

If you are taking medicines for high blood pressure or diabetes, take them as
your provider has prescribed.

Surgery may be performed if the condition is severe and is affecting your
ability to work or do important activities, you are having pain at rest, or
you have sores or ulcers on your leg that do not heal. Options are:

      * Procedure to open narrowed or blocked blood vessels that supply blood to your legs
      * Surgery to reroute the blood supply around a blocked artery 

Some people with PAD may need to have the limb removed (amputated).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most cases of PAD of the legs can be controlled without surgery. Although
surgery provides good symptom relief in severe cases, angioplasty and stenting
procedures are being used in place of surgery more and more often.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Blood clots or emboli that block small arteries
      * Coronary artery disease
      * Impotence
      * Open sores (ischemic ulcers on the lower legs)
      * Tissue death (gangrene)
      * The affected leg or foot may need to be amputated

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

      * A leg or foot that becomes cool to the touch, pale, blue, or numb
      * Chest pain or shortness of breath with leg pain
      * Leg pain that does not go away, even when you are not walking or moving (called rest pain)
      * Legs that are red, hot, or swollen
      * New sores/ulcers
      * Signs of infection (fever, redness, general ill feeling)
      * Symptoms of arteriosclerosis of the extremities

## Alternative Names

Peripheral vascular disease; PVD; PAD; Arteriosclerosis obliterans; Blockage
of leg arteries; Claudication; Intermittent claudication; Vaso-occlusive
disease of the legs; Arterial insufficiency of the legs; Recurrent leg pain
and cramping; Calf pain with exercise

## Patient Instructions

      * Angioplasty and stent placement - peripheral arteries - discharge 
      * Antiplatelet drugs - P2Y12 inhibitors
      * Cholesterol and lifestyle
      * Dietary fats explained
      * Fast food tips
      * Foot amputation - discharge
      * How to read food labels
      * Leg amputation - discharge
      * Leg or foot amputation - dressing change
      * Mediterranean diet
      * Peripheral artery bypass - leg - discharge 

## Images

      * ![Arteriosclerosis of the extremities](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18077t.jpg)Atherosclerosis of the extremities
      * ![Arterial bypass leg - series - Normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/15774t.jpg)Arterial bypass leg - series

## References

Bonaca MP, Creager MA. Peripheral artery disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow
RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A
Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2019:chap 64.

Murphy TP, Cutlip DE, Regensteiner JG, et al. Supervised exercise, stent
revascularization, or medical therapy for claudication due to aortoiliac
peripheral artery disease: the CLEVER study. _J Am Coll Cardiol_.
2015;65(10):999-1009 PMID: 25766947 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25766947.

Simons JP, Robinson WP, Schanzer A. Lower extremity arterial disease: medical
management and decision making. In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds. _Rutherford's
Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 105.

White CJ. Atherosclerotic peripheral arterial disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 79.

## Review Date 6/10/2018

Updated by: Deepak Sudheendra, MD, FSIR, RPVI, Assistant Professor of
Interventional Radiology & Surgery at the University of Pennsylvania Perelman
School of Medicine, with an expertise in Vascular Interventional Radiology &
Surgical Critical Care, Philadelphia, PA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial
update 09/04/2019.

![Peripheral Arterial
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeripheralArterialDisease_thumb.jpg)Peripheral
Arterial Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

