Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000256.htm    
                                Description: Appendicitis is a condition in which your appendix gets inflamed. The appendix is a small pouch attached to the large intestine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Appendicitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000256.htm

# Appendicitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Appendicitis is a condition in which your appendix gets inflamed. The appendix
is a small pouch attached to the large intestine.

![Appendicitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19580.jpg)

## Causes

Appendicitis is a very common cause of emergency surgery. The problem most
often occurs when the appendix becomes blocked by feces, a foreign object, a
tumor or a parasite in rare cases.

## Symptoms

The symptoms of appendicitis can vary. It can be hard to detect appendicitis
in young children, older people, and women of childbearing age.

The first symptom is often pain around the belly button or mid upper abdomen.
Pain may be minor at first, but becomes more sharp and severe. You may also
have a loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting, and a low-grade fever.

The pain tends to move into the right lower part of your belly. The pain tends
to focus at a spot directly above the appendix called McBurney point. This
most often occurs 12 to 24 hours after the illness starts.

Your pain may be worse when you walk, cough, or make sudden movements. Later
symptoms include:

      * Chills and shaking
      * Hard stools
      * Diarrhea
      * Fever
      * Nausea and vomiting

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider may suspect appendicitis based on the symptoms you
describe.

Your provider will do a physical exam.

      * If you have appendicitis, your pain will increase when your lower right belly area is pressed.
      * If your appendix has ruptured, touching the belly area may cause a lot of pain and lead you to tighten your muscles.
      * A rectal exam may find tenderness on the right side of your rectum.

A blood test will often show a high white blood cell count. Imaging tests that
may help diagnose appendicitis include:

      * CT scan of the abdomen
      * Ultrasound of the abdomen

## Treatment

Most of the time, a surgeon will remove your appendix as soon as you are
diagnosed.

If a CT scan shows that you have an abscess, you may be treated with
antibiotics first. You will have your appendix removed after the infection and
swelling have gone away.

The tests used to diagnose appendicitis are not perfect. As a result, the
operation may show that your appendix is normal. In that case, the surgeonÂ
will remove your appendix and explore the rest of your abdomen for other
causes of your pain.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people recover quickly after surgery if the appendix is removed before it
ruptures.

If your appendix ruptures before surgery, recovery may take longer. You are
also more likely to develop problems, such as:

      * An abscess
      * Blockage of the intestine
      * Infection inside the abdomen (peritonitis)
      * Infection of the wound after surgery

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have pain in the lower-right portion of your belly,
or other symptoms of appendicitis.

## Images

      * ![Anatomical landmarks - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1070t.jpg)Anatomical landmarks - front view
      * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
      * ![Appendectomy - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7028t.jpg)Appendectomy - series
      * ![Appendicitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19580t.jpg)Appendicitis

## References

Cole MA, Huang RD. Acute appendicitis. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 83.

Sarosi GA. Appendicitis. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 120.

Sifri CD, Madoff LC. Appendicitis. In: Bennett E, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas,and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 80.

Smith MP, Katz DS, Lalani T, et al. ACR appropriateness criteria right lower
quadrant pain -- suspected appendicitis. _Ultrasound Q_. 2015;31(2):85-91.
PMID: 25364964 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25364964.

## Review Date 3/26/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Appendicitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Appendicitis2_thumb.jpg)Appendicitis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

