Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002921.htm    
                                Description: An appendectomy is surgery to remove the appendix.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Appendectomy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002921.htm

# Appendectomy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An appendectomy is surgery to remove the appendix.

## Description

The appendix is a small, finger-shaped organ that branches off from the first
part of the large intestine. When it becomes swollen (inflamed) or infected,
the condition is called appendicitis. When you have appendicitis, your
appendix may need to be removed. An appendix that has a hole in it can leak
and infect the entire abdomen area. This can be life threatening.

![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1090.jpg)

Appendectomy is done using either:

      * Spinal anesthesia \-- Medicine is put into your back to make you numb below your waist. You will also get medicine to make you sleepy.
      * General anesthesia \-- You will be asleep and not feel any pain during the surgery. 

The surgeon makes a small cut in the lower right side of your belly area and
removes the appendix.

The appendix can also be removed using small surgical cuts and a camera. This
is called a laparoscopic appendectomy.

If the appendix broke open or a pocket of infection (abscess) formed, your
abdomen will be washed out during surgery. A small tube may be left in the
belly area to help drain out fluids or pus.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

An appendectomy is done for appendicitis. The condition can be hard to
diagnose, especially in children, older people, and women of childbearing age.

Most often, the first symptom is pain around your belly button:

      * The pain may be mild at first, but it becomes sharp and severe.
      * The pain often moves into your right lower abdomen and becomes more focused in this area. 

Other symptoms include:

      * Diarrhea or constipation
      * Fever (usually not very high)
      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Reduced appetite 

If you have symptoms of appendicitis, seek medical help right away. DO NOT use
heating pads, enemas, laxatives, or other home treatments to try to relieve
symptoms.

Your health care provider will examine your abdomen and rectum. Other tests
may be done:

      * Blood tests, including a white blood cell count (WBC), may be done to check for infection.
      * When the diagnosis is not clear, the doctor may order a CT scan or ultrasound to make sure the appendix is the cause of the problem. 

There are no actual tests to confirm that you have appendicitis. Other
illnesses can cause the same or similar symptoms.

The goal is to remove an infected appendix before it breaks open (ruptures).
After reviewing your symptoms and the results of the physical exam and medical
tests, your surgeon will decide whether you need surgery.

## Risks

Risks of anesthesia and surgery in general include:

      * Reactions to medicines
      * Problems breathing
      * Bleeding, blood clots, or infection 

Risks of an appendectomy after a ruptured appendix include:

      * Buildup of pus, which may need draining and antibiotics
      * Longer hospital stays 

## After the Procedure

Most people leave the hospital in 1 to 2 days after surgery. You can go back
to your normal activities within 2 to 4 weeks after leaving the hospital.

If you had laparoscopic surgery, you will likely recover quickly. Recovery is
slower and more complicated if your appendix has broken open or an abscess has
formed.

Living without an appendix causes no known health problems.

## Alternative Names

Appendix removal; Surgery - appendectomy; Appendicitis - appendectomy

## Images

      * ![Anatomical landmarks - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1070t.jpg)Anatomical landmarks - front view
      * ![Appendectomy - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7028t.jpg)Appendectomy - series
      * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system

## References

Richmond B. The appendix. In: Townsend CM, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL,
eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis of Modern Surgical
Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 50.

Sarosi GA. Appendicitis. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 120.

## Review Date 1/7/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Appendicitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Appendicitis2_thumb.jpg)Appendicitis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

