Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001163.htm    
                                Description: Premature ovarian failure is reduced function of the ovaries (including decreased production of hormones).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Premature Ovarian Failure

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001163.htm

# Premature Ovarian Failure

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Premature ovarian failure is reduced function of the ovaries (including
decreased production of hormones).

## Causes

Premature ovarian failure may be caused by genetic factors such as chromosome
abnormalities. It may also occur with certain autoimmune disorders that
disrupt the normal function of the ovaries.

Chemotherapy and radiation therapy can also cause the condition to occur.

## Symptoms

Women with premature ovarian failure may develop symptoms of menopause, which
include:

      * Hot flashes
      * Irregular or absent periods
      * Mood swings
      * Night sweats
      * Vaginal dryness 

This condition may also make it hard for a woman to become pregnant.

## Exams and Tests

A blood test will be done to check your level of follicle-stimulating hormone,
or FSH. FSH levels are higher than normal in women with premature ovarian
failure.

Other blood tests may be done to look for autoimmune disorders or thyroid
disease.

Women with premature ovarian failure who want to become pregnant may be
concerned about their ability to conceive. Those younger than age 30 may have
a chromosome analysis to check for problems. In most cases, older women who
are close to menopause do not need this test.

## Treatment

Estrogen therapy often helps relieve menopausal symptoms and prevents bone
loss. However, it will not increase your chances of becoming pregnant. Fewer
than 1 in 10 women with this condition will be able to get pregnant. The
chance of getting pregnant increases to 50% when you use a fertilized donor
egg (an egg from another woman).

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

      * You are no longer having monthly periods.
      * You have symptoms of early menopause.
      * You are having difficulty becoming pregnant.

## Alternative Names

Ovarian hypofunction; Ovarian insufficiency

## Images

      * ![Ovarian hypofunction](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17111t.jpg)Ovarian hypofunction

## References

Broekmans FJ, Fauser BCJM. Female infertility: evaluation and management. In:
Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and
Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 132.

Bulun SE. Physiology and pathology of the female reproductive axis. In: Melmed
S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 17.

Lobo RA. Menopause and care of the mature woman: endocrinology, consequences
of estrogen deficiency, effects of hormone therapy, and other treatment
options. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive
Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 14.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Premature Ovarian
Failure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PrematureOvarianFailure_thumb.jpg)Primary
Ovarian Insufficiency _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

