Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007483.htm    
                                Description: Making changes to your diet is a proven way to help control high blood pressure. These changes can also help you lose weight and lower your chance of heart disease and stroke.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

High blood pressure and diet

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007483.htm

# High blood pressure and diet

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Making changes to your diet is a proven way to help control high blood
pressure. These changes can also help you lose weight and lower your chance of
heart disease and stroke.

Your health care provider can refer you to a dietitian who can help you create
a healthy meal plan. Ask what your blood pressure target is. Your target will
be based on your risk factors and other medical problems.

DASH DIET

The low-salt Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) diet is proven to
help lower blood pressure. Its effects on blood pressure are sometimes seen
within a few weeks.

This diet is rich in important nutrients and fiber. It also includes foods
that are higher in potassium, calcium, and magnesium and lower in sodium
(salt) than the typical American diet.

The goals of the DASH diet are:

      * Limit sodium to no more than 2,300 mg a day (eating only 1,500 mg a day is an even better goal).
      * Reduce saturated fat to no more than 6% of daily calories and total fat to 27% of daily calories. Low-fat dairy products appear to be especially beneficial for lowering systolic blood pressure.
      * When choosing fats, select monounsaturated oils, such as olive or canola oil.
      * Choose whole grains over white flour or pasta products.
      * Choose fresh fruits and vegetables every day. Many of these foods are rich in potassium, fiber, or both.
      * Eat nuts, seeds, or legumes (beans or peas) daily.
      * Choose modest amounts of protein (no more than 18% of total daily calories). Fish, skinless poultry, and soy products are the best protein sources.

Other daily nutrient goals in the DASH diet include limiting carbohydrates to
55% of daily calories and dietary cholesterol to 150 mg. Try to get at least
30 grams (g) of daily fiber.

Check with your provider before you increase the potassium in your diet or use
salt substitutes (which often contain potassium). People who have kidney
problems or who take certain medicines must be careful about how much
potassium they consume.

 **HEART HEALTHY DIET**

Eat foods that are naturally low in fat. These include whole grains, fruits,
and vegetables.

      * Read food labels. Pay special attention to the level of trans fat and saturated fat.
      * Avoid or limit foods that are high in saturated fat (more than 20% of the total fat is considered high). Eating too much saturated fat is one of the major risk factors for heart disease. Food high in this type of fat include: egg yolks, hard cheeses, whole milk, cream, ice cream, butter, and fatty meats (and large portions of meats).
      * Choose lean protein foods. These include soy, fish, skinless chicken, very lean meat, and fat-free or 1% fat dairy products.
      * Look for the words "hydrogenated" or "partially hydrogenated" on food labels. DO NOT eat foods with these ingredients. They are very high in saturated fats and trans fats.
      * Limit how much fried and processed foods you eat.
      * Limit how many commercially prepared baked goods (such as doughnuts, cookies, and crackers) you eat. They may contain a lot of saturated fats or trans fats.
      * Pay attention to how foods are prepared. Healthy ways to cook fish, chicken, and lean meats are broiling, grilling, poaching, and baking. Avoid adding high-fat dressings or sauces. 

Other tips include:

      * Eat foods that are high in soluble fiber. These include oats, bran, split peas and lentils, beans (such as kidney, black, and navy beans), some cereals, and brown rice.
      * Learn how to shop for and cook foods that are healthy for your heart. Learn how to read food labels to choose healthy foods. Stay away from fast food restaurants, where healthy choices can be hard to find.

## Alternative Names

Hypertension - diet

## Images

      * ![DASH diet](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19226t.jpg)DASH diet
      * ![Low sodium diet](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22938t.jpg)Low sodium diet

## References

National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. DASH eating plan.
www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/dash-eating-plan. Accessed May 8, 2019.

Rayner B, Charlton KE, Derman W. Nonpharmacologic prevention and treatment of
hypertension. In: Feehally J, Floege J, Tonelli M, Johnson RJ, eds.
_Comprehensive Clinical Nephrology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 35.

Victor RG, Libby P. Systemic hypertension: management. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann, DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 47.

Whelton PK, Carey RM, Aronow WS, et al. 2017
ACC/AHA/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/AGS/APhA/ASH/ASPC/NMA/PCNA guideline for the prevention,
detection, evaluation, and management of high blood pressure in adults: a
report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task
Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_.
2018;71(19):e127-e248. PMID: 29146535 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29146535.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![DASH Diet](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DashDiet_thumb.jpg)DASH Eating
Plan _Read more_

![How to Prevent High Blood
Pressure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PreventHighBloodPressure_thumb.jpg)How
to Prevent High Blood Pressure _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

