Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000188.htm    
                                Description: Peripartum cardiomyopathy is a rare disorder in which a pregnant woman    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Peripartum cardiomyopathy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000188.htm

# Peripartum cardiomyopathy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Peripartum cardiomyopathy is a rare disorder in which a pregnant woman's heart
becomes weakened and enlarged. It develops during the last month of pregnancy,
or within 5 months after the baby is born.

## Causes

Cardiomyopathy occurs when there is damage to the heart. As a result, the
heart muscle becomes weak and does not pump well. This affects the lungs,
liver, and other body systems.

Peripartum cardiomyopathy is a form of dilated cardiomyopathy in which no
other cause of heart weakening can be found.

It may occur in childbearing women of any age, but it is most common after age
30.

Risk factors for the condition include:

      * Obesity
      * Personal history of cardiac disorders such as myocarditis
      * Use of certain medicines
      * Smoking
      * Alcoholism
      * Multiple pregnancies
      * Old age
      * Preecclampsia
      * African American descent
      * Poor nourishment 

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Fatigue 
      * Feeling of heart racingÂ or skipping beats (palpitations)
      * Increased nighttime urination (nocturia)
      * Shortness of breath with activity and when lying flat
      * Swelling of the ankles 

## Exams and Tests

During a physical exam, the health care provider will look for signs of fluid
in the lungs by touching and tapping with the fingers. A stethoscope will be
used to listen for lung crackles, a rapid heart rate, or abnormal heart
sounds.

The liver may be enlarged and neck veins may be swollen. Blood pressure may be
low or may drop when standing up.

Heart enlargement, congestion of the lungs or the veins in the lungs,
decreased cardiac output, decreased movement or functioning of the heart, or
heart failure may show up on:

      * Chest x-ray
      * Chest CT scan
      * Coronary angiography
      * Echocardiogram
      * Nuclear heart scan
      * Cardiac MRI 

A heart biopsy may help determine if the underlying cause of cardiomyopathy is
a heart muscle infection (myocarditis). However, this procedure is not done
very often.

![Peripartum
cardiomyopathy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18082.jpg)

## Treatment

A woman may need to stay in the hospital until acute symptoms subside.

Because it is very often possible to restore heart function, and the women who
have this condition are often young and otherwise healthy, care is often
aggressive.

When severe symptoms occur, this may include extreme steps such as:

      * Use of an assistive heart pump (aortic counterpulsation balloon, left ventricular assist device)
      * Immunosuppressive therapy (such as medicines used to treat cancer or prevent rejection of a transplanted organ)
      * Heart transplant if severe congestive heart failure persists 

For most women, however, treatment mainly focuses on relieving the symptoms.
Some symptoms go away on their own without treatment.

Medicines that are often used include:

      * Digitalis to strengthen the heart's pumping ability
      * Diuretics ("water pills") to remove excess fluid
      * Low-dose beta-blockers 
      * Other blood pressure medicines

A low-salt diet may be recommended. Fluid may be restricted in some cases.
Activities, including nursing the baby, may be limited when symptoms develop.

Daily weighing may be recommended. A weight gain of 3 to 4 pounds (1.5 to 2
kilograms) or more over 1 or 2 days may be a sign of fluid buildup.

Women who smoke and drink alcohol will be advised to stop, since these habits
may make the symptoms worse.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

There are several possible outcomes in peripartum cardiomyopathy. Some women
remain stable for long periods, while others get worse slowly.

Others get worse very quickly and may be candidates for a heart transplant.
About 4% of people will require heart transplantation and 9% may die suddenly
or die from complications of the procedure.

The outlook is good when a woman's heart returns to normal after the baby is
born. If the heart remains abnormal, future pregnancies may result in heart
failure. It is not known how to predict who will recover and who will develop
severe heart failure. Up to about one half ofÂ women will recover completely.

Women who develop peripartum cardiomyopathy are at high risk of developing the
same problem with future pregnancies. The rate of recurrence is about 30%.
Therefore, women who have had this condition should discuss birth control
methods with their provider.

## Possible Complications

Complications include:

      * Cardiac arrhythmias (can be deadly)
      * Congestive heart failure 
      * Clot formation in the heart which can embolize (travel to other parts of the body)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you are currently pregnant or have recently delivered a
baby and think you may have signs of cardiomyopathy.

Get medical help right away if you develop chest pain, palpitations,
faintness, or other new or unexplained symptoms.

## Prevention

Eat a well-balanced diet and get regular exercise to help keep your heart
strong. Avoid cigarettes and alcohol. Your provider may advise you to avoid
getting pregnant again if you have had heart failure during a previous
pregnancy.

## Alternative Names

Cardiomyopathy - peripartum; Cardiomyopathy - pregnancy

## Images

      * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
      * ![Heart - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view
      * ![Peripartum cardiomyopathy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18082t.jpg)Peripartum cardiomyopathy

## References

McKenna WJ, Elliott P. Diseases of the myocardium and endocardium. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 60.

Silversides CK, Warnes CA. Pregnancy and heart disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 90.

## Review Date 5/20/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cardiomyopathy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cardiomyopathy2_thumb.jpg)Cardiomyopathy
_Read more_

![Health Problems in
Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HealthConditionsinPregnancy_thumb.jpg)Health
Problems in Pregnancy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

