Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001105.htm    
                                Description: Cardiomyopathy is disease in which the heart muscle becomes weakened, stretched, or has another structural problem. It often occurs when the heart cannot pump or function well. \    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cardiomyopathy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001105.htm

# Cardiomyopathy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cardiomyopathy is disease in which the heart muscle becomes weakened,
stretched, or has another structural problem. It often occurs when the heart
cannot pump or function well.

Most people with cardiomyopathy have heart failure.

\![Dilated
cardiomyopathy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18136.jpg)

## Causes

There are many types of cardiomyopathy, with different causes. Some of the
more common ones are:

      * Dilated cardiomyopathy (also called idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy) is a condition in which the heart becomes weak and the chambers get large. As a result, the heart cannot pump enough blood out to the body. It can be caused by many medical problems.
      * Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is a condition in which the heart muscle becomes thick. This makes it harder for blood to leave the heart. This type of cardiomyopathy is most often passed down through families. 
![Hypertrophic
cardiomyopathy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18141.jpg)

      * Ischemic cardiomyopathy is caused by a narrowing of the arteries that supply the heart with blood. It makes the heart walls thin so they DO NOT pump well.
      * Restrictive cardiomyopathy is a group of disorders. The heart chambers are unable to fill with blood because the heart muscle is stiff. The most common causes of this type of cardiomyopathy are amyloidosis and scarring of the heart from an unknown cause.
      * Peripartum cardiomyopathy occurs during pregnancy or in the first 5 months afterward. 
![Peripartum
cardiomyopathy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18082.jpg)

## Treatment

When possible, the cause of cardiomyopathy is treated. Medicines and lifestyle
changes are often needed to treat the symptoms of heart failure, angina and
abnormal heart rhythms.

Procedures or surgeries may also be used, including:

      * A defibrillator that sends an electrical pulse to stop life-threatening abnormal heart rhythms
      * A pacemaker that treats a slow heart rate or helps the heart beat in a more coordinated fashion
      * Coronary artery bypass (CABG) surgery or angioplasty that may improve blood flow to the damaged or weakened heart muscle
      * Heart transplant that may be tried when all other treatments have failed 

Partially and fully implantable mechanical heart pumps have been developed.
These may be used for very severe cases. However, not all people need or are
able to have this advanced treatment.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook depends on many different things, including:

      * Cause and type of cardiomyopathy
      * The severity of the heart problem
      * How well the condition responds to treatment

Heart failure is most often a long-term (chronic) illness. It may get worse
over time. Some people develop severe heart failure. In this case, medicines,
surgery, and other treatments may no longer help.

People with certain types of cardiomyopathy are at risk for dangerous heart
rhythm problems.

## Patient Instructions

      * Heart failure - what to ask your doctor 

## Images

      * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
      * ![Heart - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view
      * ![Dilated cardiomyopathy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18136t.jpg)Dilated cardiomyopathy
      * ![Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18141t.jpg)Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy
      * ![Peripartum cardiomyopathy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18082t.jpg)Peripartum cardiomyopathy

## References

Falk RH and Hershberger RE. The dilated, restrictive, and infiltrative
cardiomyopathies. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF,
Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular
Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018:chap 77.

McKenna WJ, Elliott P. Diseases of the myocardium and endocardium. In Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 60.

McMurray JJV, Pfeffer MA. Heart failure: management and prognosis. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 59.

O'Connor CM, Rogers JG. Heart failure: pathophysiology and diagnosis. In
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 58.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cardiomyopathy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cardiomyopathy2_thumb.jpg)Cardiomyopathy
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

