Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000168.htm    
                                Description: Cardiomyopathy is disease in which the heart muscle becomes weakened, stretched, or has another structural problem.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dilated cardiomyopathy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000168.htm

# Dilated cardiomyopathy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cardiomyopathy is disease in which the heart muscle becomes weakened,
stretched, or has another structural problem.

Dilated cardiomyopathy is a condition in which the heart muscle becomes
weakened and enlarged. As a result, the heart cannot pump enough blood to the
rest of the body.

There are many types of cardiomyopathy. Dilated cardiomyopathy is the most
common form.

![Dilated
cardiomyopathy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18136.jpg)

## Causes

The most common causes of dilated cardiomyopathy are:

      * Heart disease caused by a narrowing or blockage in the coronary arteries
      * Poorly controlled high blood pressure 

There are many other causes of dilated cardiomyopathy, including:

      * Alcohol or cocaine (or other illegal drug) abuse
      * Diabetes, thyroid disease, or hepatitis
      * Medicines that can be toxic to the heart, such as drugs used to treat cancer
      * Abnormal heart rhythms in which the heart beats very fast for a long period of time 
      * Autoimmune illnesses
      * Conditions that run in families
      * Infections that involve the heart muscle
      * Heart valves that are either too narrow or too leaky
      * During the last month of pregnancy, or within 5 months after the baby is born.
      * Exposure to heavy metals such as lead, arsenic, cobalt, or mercury

This condition can affect anyone at any age. However, it is most common in
adult men.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of heart failure are most common. They most often develop slowly over
time. However, sometimes symptoms start very suddenly and may be severe.

Common symptoms are:

      * Chest pain or pressure (more likely with exercise)
      * Cough
      * Fatigue, weakness, faintness
      * Irregular or rapid pulse
      * Loss of appetite
      * Shortness of breath with activity or after lying down (or being asleep) for a while
      * Swelling of feet and ankles 

## Exams and Tests

During the exam, the health care provider may find:

      * The heart is enlarged.
      * Lung crackles (a sign of fluid buildup), heart murmur, or other abnormal sounds.
      * The liver is possibly enlarged.
      * Neck veins may be bulging. 

A number of laboratory tests may be done to determine the cause:

      * Antinuclear antibody (ANA), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), and other tests to diagnose autoimmune illnesses
      * Antibody test to identify infections such as Lyme disease and HIV
      * Iron tests of the blood
      * Serum TSH and T4 test to identify thyroid problems
      * Tests for amyloidosisÂ (blood, urine)

Heart enlargement or other problems with the structure and function of the
heart (such as weak squeezing) may show up on these tests. They may also help
diagnose the exact cause of the problem:

      * Echocardiogram (ultrasound of the heart)
      * Cardiac stress tests
      * Chest x-ray
      * Coronary angiogram to look at blood flow to the heart
      * Cardiac catheterization to measure pressures in and around the heart  

      * CT scan of the heart
      * MRI of the heart
      * Nuclear heart scan (MUGA, RNV) 

Heart biopsy, in which a small piece of heart muscle is removed, may be needed
depending on the cause. However, this is rarely done.

## Treatment

Things you can do at home to take care of your condition include:

      * Know your body, and watch for symptoms that your heart failure is getting worse.
      * Watch for changes in your symptoms, heart rate, pulse, blood pressure, and weight.
      * Limit how much you drink and how much salt (sodium) you get in your diet. 

Most people who have heart failure need to take medicines. Some medicines
treat your symptoms. Others may help prevent your heart failure from becoming
worse, or may prevent other heart problems.

Procedures and surgeries you may need include:

      * A pacemaker to help treat slow heart rates or help your heartbeat stay in sync
      * A defibrillator that recognizes life-threatening heart rhythms and sends an electrical pulse (shock) to stop them
      * Heart bypass (CABG) surgery or angioplasty to improve blood flow to the damaged or weakened heart muscle
      * Valve replacement or repair 

For advanced cardiomyopathy:

      * A heart transplant may be recommended if standard treatments have not worked and heart failure symptoms are very severe.
      * Placement of a ventricular assist device or artificial heart may be considered. 

Chronic heart failure becomes worse over time. Many people who have heart
failure will die from the condition. Thinking about the type of care you may
want at the end of life and discussing these issues with loved ones and your
health care provider is important.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Heart failure is most often a chronic illness, which may get worse over time.
Some people develop severe heart failure, in which medicines, other
treatments, and surgery no longer help. Many people are at risk for deadly
heart rhythms, and may need medicines or a defibrillator.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of cardiomyopathy.

Get emergency medical help right away if you have chest pain, palpitations or
fainting.

## Alternative Names

Cardiomyopathy - dilated; Primary cardiomyopathy; Diabetic cardiomyopathy;
Idiopathic cardiomyopathy; Alcoholic cardiomyopathy

## Images

      * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
      * ![Heart - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view
      * ![Dilated cardiomyopathy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18136t.jpg)Dilated cardiomyopathy
      * ![Alcoholic cardiomyopathy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18070t.jpg)Alcoholic cardiomyopathy

## References

Falk RH, Hershberger RE. The dilated, restrictive, and infiltrative
cardiomyopathies. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF,
Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular
Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 77.

Mckenna WJ, Elliott P. Diseases of the myocardium and endocardium. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 60.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cardiomyopathy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cardiomyopathy2_thumb.jpg)Cardiomyopathy
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

