Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003873.htm    
                                Description: Myocardial biopsy is the removal of a small piece of heart muscle for examination.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Myocardial biopsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003873.htm

# Myocardial biopsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Myocardial biopsy is the removal of a small piece of heart muscle for
examination.

## How the Test is Performed

Myocardial biopsy is done through a catheter that is threaded into your heart
(cardiac catheterization). The procedure will take place in a hospital
radiology department, special procedures room, or cardiac diagnostics
laboratory.

To have the procedure:

      * You may be given medicine to help you relax (sedative) before the procedure. However, you will remain awake and able to follow instructions during the test.
      * You will lie flat on a stretcher or table while the test is being done.
      * The skin is scrubbed and a local numbing medicine (anesthetic) is given.
      * A surgical cut will be made your arm, neck, or groin.
      * The health care provider inserts a thin tube (catheter) through a vein or artery, depending on whether tissue will be taken from the right or left side of the heart.
      * If the biopsy is done without another procedure, the catheter is most often placed through a vein in the neck and then carefully threaded into the heart. The doctor will use moving x-ray images (fluoroscopy) or echocardiography (ultrasound) to guide the catheter to the correct area.
      * Once the catheter is in position, a special device with small jaws on the tip is used to remove small pieces of tissue from the heart muscle.
      * The procedure may last 1 or more hours. 
![Biopsy catheter](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/8904.jpg)

## How to Prepare for the Test

You will be told not to eat or drink anything for 6 to 8 hours before the
test. The procedure takes place in the hospital. Most often, you will be
admitted the morning of the procedure, but in some cases, you may need to be
admitted the night before.

A provider will explain the procedure and its risks. You must sign a consent
form.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel some pressure at the biopsy site. You may have some discomfort
due to lying still for a long period of time.

## Why the Test is Performed

This procedure is routinely done after heart transplantation to watch for
signs of rejection.

Your provider may also order this procedure if you have signs of:

      * Alcoholic cardiomyopathy
      * Cardiac amyloidosis
      * Cardiomyopathy
      * Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy
      * Idiopathic cardiomyopathy
      * Ischemic cardiomyopathy
      * Myocarditis
      * Peripartum cardiomyopathy
      * Restrictive cardiomyopathy

## Normal Results

A normal result means no abnormal heart muscle tissue was discovered. However,
it does not necessarily mean your heart is normal because sometimes the biopsy
can miss abnormal tissue.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result means abnormal tissue was found. This test may reveal the
cause of cardiomyopathy. Abnormal tissue may be due to:

      * Amyloidosis
      * Myocarditis
      * Sarcoidosis
      * Transplant rejection

## Risks

Risks are moderate and include:

      * Blood clots
      * Bleeding from the biopsy site
      * Cardiac arrhythmias
      * Infection
      * Injury to the recurrent laryngeal nerve
      * Injury to the vein or artery
      * Pneumothorax
      * Rupture of the heart (very rare)
      * Tricuspid regurgitation 

## Alternative Names

Heart biopsy; Biopsy - heart

## Images

      * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
      * ![Heart - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view
      * ![Biopsy catheter](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8904t.jpg)Biopsy catheter

## References

Herrmann J. Cardiac catheterization. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL,
Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of
Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 19.

O'Connor CM, Rogers JG. Heart failure: pathophysiology and diagnosis. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 58.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cardiomyopathy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cardiomyopathy2_thumb.jpg)Cardiomyopathy
_Read more_

![Heart
Transplantation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartTransplantation_thumb.jpg)Heart
Transplantation _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

