Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000189.htm    
                                Description: Restrictive cardiomyopathy refers to a set of changes in how the heart muscle functions. These changes cause the heart to fill poorly (more common) or squeeze poorly (less common). Sometimes, both problems    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Restrictive cardiomyopathy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000189.htm

# Restrictive cardiomyopathy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Restrictive cardiomyopathy refers to a set of changes in how the heart muscle
functions. These changes cause the heart to fill poorly (more common) or
squeeze poorly (less common). Sometimes, both problems are present.

## Causes

In a case of restrictive cardiomyopathy, the heart muscle is of normal size or
slightly enlarged. Most of the time, it also pumps normally. However, it does
not relax normally during the time between heartbeats when the blood returns
from the body (diastole).

Although the main problem is abnormal filling of the heart, the heart may not
pump blood strongly when the disease progresses. The abnormal heart function
can affect the lungs, liver, and other body systems. Restrictive
cardiomyopathy may affect either or both of the lower heart chambers
(ventricles). Restrictive cardiomyopathy is a rare condition. The most common
causes are amyloidosis and scarring of the heart from an unknown cause. It
also can occur after a heart transplant.

Other causes of restrictive cardiomyopathy include:

      * Cardiac amyloidosis
      * Carcinoid heart disease
      * Diseases of the heart lining (endocardium), such as endomyocardial fibrosis and Loeffler syndrome (rare)
      * Iron overload (hemochromatosis)
      * Sarcoidosis
      * Scarring after radiation or chemotherapy
      * Scleroderma
      * Tumors of the heart 

## Symptoms

Symptoms of heart failure are most common. These symptoms often develop slowly
over time. However, symptoms sometimes start very suddenly and are severe.

Common symptoms are:

      * Cough
      * Breathing problems that occur at night, with activity or when lying flat 
      * Fatigue and inability to exercise
      * Loss of appetite
      * Swelling of the abdomen 
      * Swelling of the feet and ankles
      * Uneven or rapid pulse 

Other symptoms may include:

      * Chest pain
      * Inability to concentrate
      * Low urine output
      * Need to urinate at night (in adults) 

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam may show:

      * Enlarged (distended) or bulging neck veins
      * Enlarged liver
      * Lung crackles and abnormal or distant heart sounds in the chest heard through a stethoscope
      * Fluid backup into the hands and feet
      * Signs of heart failure

Tests for restrictive cardiomyopathy include:

      * Cardiac catheterization and coronary angiography
      * Chest CT scan
      * Chest x-ray
      * ECG (electrocardiogram)
      * Echocardiogram and Doppler study
      * MRI of the heart
      * Nuclear heart scan (MUGA, RNV)
      * Serum iron studies
      * Serum and urine protein tests 

Restrictive cardiomyopathy may appear similar to constrictive pericarditis.
Cardiac catheterization may help confirm the diagnosis. Rarely, a biopsy of
the heart may be required.

## Treatment

The condition causing the cardiomyopathy is treated when it can be found.

Few treatments are known to work well for restrictive cardiomyopathy. The main
goal of treatment is to control symptoms and improve quality of life.

The following treatments may be used to control symptoms or prevent problems:

      * Blood thinning medicines 
      * Chemotherapy (in some situations)
      * Diuretics to remove fluid and help improve breathing
      * Medicines to prevent or control abnormal heart rhythms
      * Steroids or chemotherapy for some causes

A heart transplant may be considered if the heart function is very poor and
symptoms are severe.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People with this condition often develop heart failure that gets worse.
Problems with heart rhythm or "leaky" heart valves may also occur.

People with restrictive cardiomyopathy may be heart transplant candidates. The
outlook depends on the cause of the condition, but it is usually poor.
Survival after diagnosis may exceed 10 years.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have symptoms of restrictive
cardiomyopathy.

## Alternative Names

Cardiomyopathy - restrictive; Infiltrative cardiomyopathy; Idiopathic
myocardial fibrosis

## Images

      * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
      * ![Heart - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view

## References

Falk RH and Hershberger RE. The dilated, restrictive, and infiltrative
cardiomyopathies. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF,
Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular
Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 77.

McKenna W, Elliott P. Diseases of the myocardium and endocardium. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 60.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cardiomyopathy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cardiomyopathy2_thumb.jpg)Cardiomyopathy
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

