Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000192.htm    
                                Description: Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is a condition in which the heart muscle becomes thick. Often, only one part of the heart is thicker than the other parts.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000192.htm

# Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is a condition in which the heart muscle
becomes thick. Often, only one part of the heart is thicker than the other
parts.

The thickening can make it harder for blood to leave the heart, forcing the
heart to work harder to pump blood. It also can make it harder for the heart
to relax and fill with blood.

![Hypertrophic
cardiomyopathy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18141.jpg)

## Causes

Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is most often passed down through families
(inherited). It is thought to result from defects in the genes that control
heart muscle growth.

Younger people are likely to have a more severe form of hypertrophic
cardiomyopathy. However, the condition is seen in people of all ages.

## Symptoms

Some people with the condition may have no symptoms. They may first find out
they have the problem during a routine medical exam.

In many young adults, the first symptom of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is
sudden collapse and possible death. This can be caused by highly abnormal
heart rhythms (arrhythmias). It may also be due to a blockage that prevents
the outflow of blood from the heart to the rest of the body.

Common symptoms include:

      * Chest pain
      * Dizziness
      * Fainting, especially during exercise
      * Fatigue
      * Lightheadedness, especially with or after activity or exercise
      * Sensation of feeling the heart beat fast or irregularly (palpitations)
      * Shortness of breath with activity or after lying down (or being asleep for a while) 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and listen to the heart
and lungs with a stethoscope. Signs may include:

      * Abnormal heart sounds or a heart murmur. These sounds may change with different body positions.
      * High blood pressure. 

The pulse in your arms and neck will also be checked. The provider may feel an
abnormal heartbeat in the chest.

Tests used to diagnose heart muscle thickness, problems with blood flow, or
leaky heart valves (mitral valve regurgitation) may include:

      * Echocardiography
      * ECG
      * 24-hour Holter monitor (heart rhythm monitor)
      * Cardiac catheterization
      * Chest x-ray
      * MRI of the heart
      * CT scan of the heart
      * Transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE) 

Blood tests may be done to rule out other diseases.

Close family members of people who have been diagnosed with hypertrophic
cardiomyopathy may be screened for the condition.

## Treatment

Always follow your provider's advice about exercise if you have hypertrophic
cardiomyopathy. You may be told to avoid strenuous exercise. Also, see your
provider for regularly scheduled checkups.

If you have symptoms, you may need medicines such as beta-blockers and calcium
channel blockers to help the heart contract and relax correctly. These drugs
may relieve chest pain or shortness of breath when exercising.

People with arrhythmias may need treatment, such as:

      * Medicines to treat the abnormal rhythm.
      * Blood thinners to reduce the risk of blood clots (if the arrhythmia is due to atrial fibrillation).
      * A permanent pacemaker to control the heartbeat.
      * An implanted defibrillator that recognizes life-threatening heart rhythms and sends an electrical pulse to stop them. Sometimes a defibrillator is placed, even if the patient has not had an arrhythmia but is at high risk for a deadly arrhythmia (for example, if the heart muscle is very thick or weak, or the patient has a relative who has died suddenly). 

When blood flow out of the heart is severely blocked, symptoms can become
severe. An operation called surgical myectomy may be done. In some cases,
people may be given an injection of alcohol into the arteries that feed the
thickened part of the heart (alcohol septal ablation). People who have this
procedure often show much improvement.

You may need surgery to repair the heart's mitral valve if it is leaking.

![Cardiomyopathy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200045t.gif)Watch
this video about:Cardiomyopathy

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Some people with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy may not have symptoms and will
have normal lifespan. Others may get worse slowly or quickly. In some cases,
the condition may develop into dilated cardiomyopathy.

People with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy are at higher risk for sudden death
than people without the condition. Sudden death can occur at a young age.

There are different types of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, which have different
prognoses. The outlook may be better when the disease occurs in older people
or when there is a particular pattern of thickness in the heart muscle.

Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is a well-known cause of sudden death in athletes.
Almost half of deaths due to this condition happen during or just after some
type of physical activity.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You have any symptoms of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
      * You develop chest pain, palpitations, faintness, or other new or unexplained symptoms.

## Alternative Names

Cardiomyopathy - hypertrophic (HCM); IHSS; Idiopathic hypertrophic subaortic
stenosis; Asymmetric septal hypertrophy; ASH; HOCM; Hypertrophic obstructive
cardiomyopathy

## Images

      * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
      * ![Heart - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view
      * ![Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18141t.jpg)Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy

## References

Maron BJ, Maron MS, Olivotto I. Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. In: Zipes DP,
Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2018:chap 78.

McKenna WJ, Elliott P. Diseases of the myocardium and endocardium. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 60.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cardiomyopathy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cardiomyopathy2_thumb.jpg)Cardiomyopathy
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

