Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000149.htm    
                                Description: Myocarditis is inflammation of the heart muscle.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Myocarditis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000149.htm

# Myocarditis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Myocarditis is inflammation of the heart muscle.

The condition is called pediatric myocarditis when it occurs in children.

## Causes

Myocarditis is an uncommon disorder. Most of the time, it is caused by an
infection that reaches the heart.

When you have an infection, your immune system produces special cells to fight
off disease. If the infection affects your heart, the disease-fighting cells
enter the heart. However, the chemicals made by these cells can also damage
the heart muscle. As a result, the heart can become thick, swollen, and weak.

Many cases are caused by a virus that reaches the heart. These can include the
influenza (flu) virus, coxsackievirus, parovirus, cytomegalovirus, adenovirus,
and others.

It may also be caused by bacterial infections such as Lyme disease,
streptococcus, mycoplasma, and chlamydia.

![Myocarditis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/22714.jpg)

Other causes of myocarditis include:

      * Reactions to certain medicines, such as certain chemotherapy drugs
      * Exposure to chemicals in the environment, such as heavy metals
      * Infections due to fungus or parasites
      * Radiation
      * Autoimmune disorders that cause inflammation throughout the body 

Sometimes the exact cause may not be discovered.

## Symptoms

There may be no symptoms. Symptoms may be similar to the flu. If symptoms
occur, they may include:

      * Chest pain that may resemble a heart attack
      * Fatigue or listlessness
      * Fever and other signs of infection including headache, muscle aches, sore throat, diarrhea, or rashes
      * Joint pain or swelling
      * Leg swelling
      * Pale, cool hands and feet (a sign of poor circulation)
      * Rapid breathing
      * Rapid heart rate 

Other symptoms that may occur with this disease:

      * Fainting, often related to irregular heart rhythms
      * Low urine output

## Exams and Tests

Myocarditis can be hard to diagnose because the signs and symptoms often mimic
those of other heart and lung diseases, or a bad case of the flu.

The health care provider may hear a rapid heartbeat or abnormal heart sounds
while listening to the child's chest with a stethoscope. A physical exam may
detect fluid in the lungs and swelling in the legs in older children.

There may be signs of infection, including fever and rashes.

A chest x-ray can show enlargement (swelling) of the heart. If the provider
suspects myocarditis based on the exam and chest x-ray, an electrocardiogram
may also be done to help make the diagnosis.Â Heart biopsy is the most
accurate way to confirm the diagnosis, but it is not always needed, Also, a
heart biopsy may not reveal the diagnosis if the small piece of heart tissue
that is removed does not contain the suspected organism or other indicators.

Other tests that may be needed include:

      * Blood cultures to check for infection
      * Blood tests to look for antibodies against viruses or the heart muscle itself
      * Blood tests to check liver and kidney function
      * Complete blood count
      * Special tests to check for the presence of viruses in the blood (viral PCR) 

## Treatment

Treatment is aimed at the cause of the problem, and may involve:

      * Antibiotics to fight bacterial infection
      * Medicines called steroids to reduce swelling 
      * Intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG), a medicine made of substances (called antibodies) that the body produces to fight infection, to control the inflammatory process
      * Diuretics to remove excess water from the body 
      * Low-salt diet 
      * Reduced activity 

If the heart muscle is weak, your provider will prescribe medicines to treat
heart failure. Abnormal heart rhythms may require the use of other medicines.
You may also need a device such as a pacemaker, or implantable cardioverter-
defibrillator's to correct a dangerous abnormal heartbeat. If a blood clot is
in the heart chamber, you will also receive blood thinning medicine.

Rarely, a heart transplant may be needed if the heart muscle has become too
weak to function.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome can vary, depending on the cause of the problem and a personâs
overall health. Some people may recover completely. Others may have lasting
heart failure.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Cardiomyopathy
      * Heart failure
      * Pericarditis

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of myocarditis, especially after a
recent infection.

Seek medical help right away if:

      * Your symptoms are severe.
      * You have been myocarditis, and you have increased chest pain, swelling, or breathing problems. 

## Prevention

Treat conditions that cause myocarditis promptly to reduce the risk.

## Alternative Names

Inflammation - heart muscle

## Images

      * ![Myocarditis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22714t.jpg)Myocarditis
      * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
      * ![Heart - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view
      * ![Lymph tissue in the head and neck](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9554t.jpg)Lymph tissue in the head and neck

## References

Cooper LT, Knowlton KU. Myocarditis. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL,
Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of
Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 79.

Knowlton KU, Narezkina A, Savoia MC, Oxman MN. Myocarditis and pericarditis.
In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 86.

McKenna WJ, Elliott P. Diseases of the myocardium and endocardium. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 60.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cardiomyopathy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cardiomyopathy2_thumb.jpg)Cardiomyopathy
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

