Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007307.htm    
                                Description: Pediatric myocarditis is inflammation of the heart muscle in an infant or young child.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Myocarditis - pediatric

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007307.htm

# Myocarditis - pediatric

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pediatric myocarditis is inflammation of the heart muscle in an infant or
young child.

## Causes

Myocarditis is rare in young children. It is slightly more common in older
children and adults. It is often worse in newborns and young infants than in
children over age 2.

Most cases in children are caused by a virus that reaches the heart. These can
include the influenza (flu) virus, Coxsackie virus, parovirus, and adenovirus.
It may also be caused by bacterial infections such as Lyme disease.

Other causes of pediatric myocarditis include:

      * Allergic reactions to certain medicines
      * Exposure to chemicals in the environment
      * Infections due to fungus or parasites
      * Radiation
      * Some diseases (autoimmune disorders) that cause inflammation throughout the body
      * Some drugs 

The heart muscle may be directly damaged by the virus or the bacteria that
infect it. The body's immune response can also damage the heart muscle (called
the myocardium) in the process of fighting the infection. This can lead to
symptoms of heart failure.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may be mild at first and hard to detect. However, in newborns and
infants, symptoms may sometimes appear suddenly. Symptoms may include:

      * Anxiousness
      * Failure to thrive or poor weight gain
      * Feeding difficulties
      * Fever and other symptoms of infection
      * Listlessness
      * Low urine output (a sign of decreasing kidney function)
      * Pale, cool hands and feet (a sign of poor circulation)
      * Rapid breathing
      * Rapid heart rate 

Symptoms in children over age 2 may also include:

      * Belly area pain and nausea
      * Chest pain
      * Cough
      * Fatigue
      * Swelling (edema) in the legs, feet, and face 

## Exams and Tests

Pediatric myocarditis can be hard to diagnose because the signs and symptoms
often mimic those of other heart and lung diseases, or a bad case of the flu.

The health care provider may hear a rapid heartbeat or abnormal heart sounds
while listening to the child's chest with a stethoscope. A physical exam may
detect fluid in the lungs and swelling in the legs in older children.

There may be signs of infection, including fever and rashes.

A chest x-ray can show enlargement (swelling) of the heart. If the provider
suspects myocarditis based on the exam and chest x-ray, an electrocardiogram
may also be done to help make the diagnosis.

Other tests that may be needed include:

      * Blood cultures to check for infection
      * Blood tests to look for antibodies against viruses or the heart muscle itself
      * Blood tests to check liver and kidney function
      * Complete blood count
      * Heart biopsy (the most accurate way to confirm the diagnosis, but not always needed)
      * Special tests to check for the presence of viruses in the blood (viral PCR) 

## Treatment

There is no cure for myocarditis. The heart muscle inflammation will often go
away on its own.

The goal of treatment is to support heart function until the inflammation goes
away. Many children with this condition are admitted to a hospital. Activity
often needs to be limited while the heart is inflamed because it can strain
the heart.

Treatment may include:

      * Antibiotics to fight bacterial infection
      * Anti-inflammatory medicines called steroids to control inflammation
      * Intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG), a medicine made of substances (called antibodies) that the body produces to fight infection, to control the inflammatory process
      * Mechanical support using a machine to help the heart function (in extreme cases)
      * Medicines to treat symptoms of heart failure
      * Medicines to treat abnormal heart rhythms 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Recovery from myocarditis depends on the cause of the problem and the child's
overall health. Most children recover completely with proper treatment.
However, some may have permanent heart disease.

Newborns have the highest risk for serious disease and complications
(including death) due to myocarditis. In rare cases, severe damage to the
heart muscle requires a heart transplant.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Enlargement of the heart that leads to reduced heart function (dilated cardiomyopathy)
      * Heart failure
      * Heart rhythm problems 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your child's pediatrician if signs or symptoms of this condition occur.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention. However, prompt testing and treatment mayÂ
reduce the disease risk.

## Images

      * ![Myocarditis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22714t.jpg)Myocarditis

## References

McNamara DM. Heart failure as a consequence of viral and nonviral myocarditis.
In: Mann DL, Felker GM, eds. _Heart Failure: A Companion to Braunwald's Heart
Disease_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 26.

Park MK. Cardiovascular infections. In: Park MK, ed. _Park's Pediatric
Cardiology for Practitioners_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 19.

Spicer RL, Ware SM. Diseases of the myocardium. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF,
St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 439.

## Review Date 2/19/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cardiomyopathy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cardiomyopathy2_thumb.jpg)Cardiomyopathy
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

