Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000823.htm    
                                Description: If you have cancer, a clinical trial may be an option for you. A clinical trial is a study using people who agree to participate in new tests or treatments. Clinical trials help researchers know whether    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

A guide to clinical trials for cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000823.htm

# A guide to clinical trials for cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If you have cancer, a clinical trial may be an option for you. A clinical
trial is a study using people who agree to participate in new tests or
treatments. Clinical trials help researchers know whether a new treatment
works well and is safe. Trials are available for many cancers and all stages
of cancer, not just advanced cancer.

If you join a trial, you may get treatment that can help you. Plus, you will
help others to learn more about your cancer as well as new tests or
treatments. There are many things to consider before joining a trial. Learn
about why you might want to enroll in a clinical trial and where to find one.

## What is a Clinical Trial for Cancer?

Clinical trials for cancer look at ways to:

      * Prevent cancer
      * Screen or test for cancer
      * Treat or manage cancer
      * Reduce symptoms or side effects of cancer or cancer treatments

A clinical trial will recruit many people to participate. During the study,
each group of people will receive a different test or treatment. Some will get
the new treatment being tested. Others will get standard treatment. The
researchers will collect the results to see what works best.

Current cancer medicines, tests, and treatments used by most health care
providers have been tested through clinical trials.

## Why Should You Consider a Clinical Trial?

The decision to join a clinical trial is a personal one. It is a decision you
have to make based on your values, goals, and expectations. Plus, there are
benefits and risks when you join a trial.

Some of the benefits include:

      * You may receive a new treatment that is not yet available to other people.
      * You may receive treatment that is better than what is currently available.
      * You will receive close attention and monitoring by your providers.
      * You will help researchers understand your cancer and learn better ways to help other people with the same cancer. 

Some of the potential risks include:

      * You may experience side effects.
      * The new treatment may not work for you.
      * The new treatment may not be as good as standard treatment.
      * You may need more office visits and more tests.
      * Your insurance may not pay for all of your costs in a clinical trial. 

## Is It Safe?

There are strict federal rules in place to protect your safety during a
clinical trial. Safety guidelines (protocols) are agreed to before the study
begins. These guidelines are reviewed by health experts to make sure that the
study is based on good science and the risks are low. Clinical trials are also
monitored during the entire study.

Before you join a clinical trial, you will learn about the safety guidelines,
what is expected of you, and how long the study will last. You will be asked
to sign a consent form saying that you understand and agree to the way the
study will be run and the potential side effects.

## Is There a Cost?

Before you join a trial, make sure you look into which costs are covered.
Routine cancer care costs are often covered by health insurance. You should
review your policy and contact your health plan to make sure. Often, your
health plan will cover most routine office visits and consults, as well as
tests done to monitor your health.

Research costs, such as the study medicine, or extra visits or tests, may need
to be covered by the research sponsor. Also keep in mind that extra visits and
tests may mean additional cost to you in lost work time and daycare or
transportation costs.

## Who Can Join a Clinical Trial?

Each clinical study has guidelines about who can join. This is called
eligibility criteria. These guidelines are based on what questions the
researchers are trying to answer. Studies often try to include people who have
certain things in common. This can make it easier to understand the results.
So you may be able to join only if you have cancer at a certain stage, are
older or younger than a certain age, and do not have other health problems.

If you are eligible, you can apply to be in the clinical trial. Once accepted,
you become a volunteer. This means that you may quit at any time. But if you
feel you want to quit, be sure you talk it over with your provider first.

## How to Find a Clinical Trial?

Trials are done in many places, such as:

      * Cancer centers
      * Local hospitals
      * Medical group offices
      * Community clinics 

You can find clinical trials listed on the website of the National Cancer
Institute (NCI) -- www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials. It
is a part of the National Institutes of Health, the United States government
research agency. Many of the clinical trials run across the country are
sponsored by the NCI.

If you are interested in joining a clinical trial, talk with your provider.
Ask if there is a trial in your area related to your cancer. Your provider can
help you understand the type of care you will receive and how the trial will
change or add to your care. You can also go over all of the risks and benefits
to decide whether joining a trial is a good move for you.

## Alternative Names

Intervention study - cancer

## References

American Cancer Society website. Clinical trials.
www.cancer.org/treatment/treatments-and-side-effects/clinical-trials.html.
Accessed August 22, 2018.

National Cancer Institute website. Clinical trials information for patients
and caregivers. www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials.
Accessed August 22, 2018.

National Institutes of Health website. Clinical Trials.gov.
www.clinicaltrials.gov. Accessed August 22, 2018.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Clinical Trials

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

