Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000870.htm    
                                Description: Nummular eczema is a dermatitis (eczema) in which itchy, coin-shaped spots or patches appear on the skin. The word nummular is Latin for &quot;resembling coins.&quot;    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nummular eczema

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000870.htm

# Nummular eczema

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Nummular eczema is a dermatitis (eczema) in which itchy, coin-shaped spots or
patches appear on the skin. The word nummular is Latin for "resembling coins."

## Causes

The cause of nummular eczema is unknown. ButÂ there usually is a personal or
family history of:

      * Allergies
      * Asthma
      * Atopic dermatitis

Things that can make the condition worse include:

      * Dry skin
      * Environmental irritants
      * Temperature changes
      * Stress

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

      * Coin-shaped areas of the skin (lesions) that are red, dry, itchy, and scaly, and appear on the arms and legs 
      * Lesions may spread to middle of body
      * Lesions may ooze and become crusty

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider can usually diagnose this condition by looking at
your skin and asking about your family's medical history.

A skin biopsy may be needed to rule out other similar conditions. Allergy
testing may be done.

## Treatment

Eczema is often treated with medicines applied to the skin. These are called
topical medicines, and may include:

      * A mild cortisone (steroid) cream or ointment at first. You may need a stronger medicine if this does not work.
      * Other ointments or creams that help quiet the immune response may be prescribed for anyone over 2 years old, often for use on the face or other sensitive areas.
      * Creams or ointments that contain coal tar may be used for thickened areas.

You may also be asked to try the wet wrap treatment. This involves the
following steps:

      * Soak the skin in lukewarm water for about 10 minutes.
      * Apply petroleum jelly (such as Vaseline) or corticosteroid ointment to the lesions.
      * Wrapping the affected area with wet bandages to keep the skin moist. This also helps the medicine work. If larger areas of the body are affected, you can wear damp pajamas or a sauna suit.
      * Follow your provider's instructions for how long to keep the area covered, and how many times a day to do the wet wrap treatment.

The following measures may help improve your symptoms or prevent them from
returning if your skin has cleared:

      * Use lukewarm water when bathing and showering. Hot water can dry and irritate the skin. Take shorter or fewer baths or showers.
      * Don't use soap. It can dry the skin. Use a gentle, mild cleanser instead.
      * Ask your provider about adding bath oil to bath water.
      * After bathing or showering, pat the lesions dry and apply lotion before the skin is all dry.
      * Wear loose clothing. Tight clothing can rub and irritate the skin. Avoid wearing rough fabrics, such as wool, next to the skin.
      * Use a humidifier in your home to help moisten the air.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Nummular eczema is a long-term (chronic) condition. Medical treatment and
avoiding irritants can help reduce symptoms.

## Possible Complications

A secondary infection of the skin may develop.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if you have symptoms of this condition.

Also contact your provider if:

      * Symptoms continue despite treatment
      * You have signs of infection (such as fever, redness, or pain) 

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent the disorder.

## Alternative Names

Eczema - discoid; Nummular dermatitis

## References

Habif TP. Eczema and hand dermatitis. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical Dermatology:
A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 3.

James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Eczema, atopic
dermatitis, and noninfectious immunodeficiency disorders. In: James WD, Elston
DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM, eds.Â _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin_.
13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 5.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eczema](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Eczema_thumb.jpg)Eczema _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

