Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000832.htm    
                                Description: Pompholyx eczema is a condition in which small blisters develop on the hands and feet. The blisters are often itchy. Pompholyx comes from the Greek word for bubble.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pompholyx eczema

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000832.htm

# Pompholyx eczema

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pompholyx eczema is a condition in which small blisters develop on the hands
and feet. The blisters are often itchy. Pompholyx comes from the Greek word
for bubble.

Eczema (atopic dermatitis) is a long-term (chronic) skin disorder that
involves scaly and itchy rashes.

## Causes

The cause is unknown. The condition seems to appear during certain times of
the year.

You are more likely to develop pompholyx eczema when:

      * You are under stress
      * You have allergies, such as hay fever
      * You have dermatitis elsewhere
      * Your hands are often in water or moist
      * You work with cement or do other work that exposes your hands to chromium, cobalt, or nickel 

Women seem to be more prone to developing the condition more than men are.

## Symptoms

Small fluid-filled blisters called vesicles appear on the fingers, hands, and
feet. They are most common along the edges of the fingers, toes, palms, and
soles. These blisters can be very itchy. They also cause scaly patches of skin
that flake or get red, cracked, and painful.

Scratching leads to skin changes and skin thickening. Large blisters may cause
pain or can get infected.

## Exams and Tests

Your doctor may be able to diagnose this condition by looking at your skin.

A skin biopsy may be needed to rule out other causes, such as a fungal
infection or psoriasis.

If your doctor thinks the condition may be due to an allergic reaction,
allergy testing (patch testing) may be done.

## Treatment

Pompholyx may go away on its own. Treatment is aimed at controlling the
symptoms, such as itching and preventing blisters. Your doctor will likely
recommend self-care measures.

SKIN CARE AT HOME

Keep the skin moist by lubricating or moisturizing the skin. Use ointments
(such as petroleum jelly), creams, or lotions.

Moisturizers:

      * Should be free of alcohol, scents, dyes, fragrances, or other chemicals.
      * Work best when they're applied to skin that is wet or damp. After washing or bathing, pat the skin dry and then apply the moisturizer right away.
      * May be used at different times of the day. For the most part, you can apply these substances as often as you need to keep your skin soft. 

MEDICINES

Medicines that help relieve itching can be bought without a prescription.

      * Take an anti-itch medicine before bed if you scratch in your sleep.
      * Some antihistamines cause little or no sleepiness, but aren't so effective for itching. These include fexofenadine (Allegra), loratadine (Claritin, Alavert), cetirizine (Zyrtec).
      * Others can make you sleepy, including diphenhydramine (Benadryl). 

Your doctor may prescribe topical medicines. These are ointments or creams
that are applied to the skin. Types include:

      * Corticosteroids, which calm swollen or inflamed skin
      * Immunomodulators, applied to the skin, which help keep the immune system from reacting too strongly
      * Prescription anti-itch medicines 

Follow instructions on how to apply these medicines. Do not apply more than
you're supposed to use.

If symptoms are severe, you may need other treatments, such as:

      * Corticosteroid pills
      * Corticosteroid shots
      * Coal tar preparations
      * Systemic immunomodulators
      * Phototherapy (ultraviolet light therapy) 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Pompholyx eczema usually goes away without problems, but symptoms may come
back. Severe scratching may lead to thick, irritated skin. This makes the
problem harder to treat.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have:

      * Signs of infection such as tenderness, redness, warmth, or fever
      * A rash that does not go away with simple home treatments

## Alternative Names

Cheiropompholyx; Pedopompholyx; Dyshidrosis; Dyshidrotic eczema; Acral
vesicular dermatitis; Chronic hand dermatitis

## Images

      * ![Eczema, atopic - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2407t.jpg)Eczema, atopic - close-up
      * ![Atopic dermatitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19323t.jpg)Atopic dermatitis

## References

Camacho ID, Burdick AE. Hand and foot eczema (endogenous, dyshidrotic eczema,
pompholyx). In: Lebwohl MG, Heymann WR, Berth-Jones J, Coulson I, eds.
_Treatment of Skin Disease: Comprehensive Therapeutic Strategies_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 99.

James WD, , Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Eczema, atopic
dermatitis, and noninfectious immunodeficiency disorders. In: James WD, Elston
DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM, eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin_.
13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 5.

## Review Date 7/12/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eczema](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Eczema_thumb.jpg)Eczema _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

