Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000853.htm    
                                Description: Atopic dermatitis is a long-term (chronic) skin disorder that involves scaly and itchy rashes. It is a type of eczema.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Atopic dermatitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000853.htm

# Atopic dermatitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Atopic dermatitis is a long-term (chronic) skin disorder that involves scaly
and itchy rashes. It is a type of eczema.

Other forms of eczema include:

      * Contact dermatitis
      * Dyshidrotic eczema
      * Nummular eczema
      * Seborrheic dermatitis

## Causes

Atopic dermatitis is due to a skin reactionÂ in the skin. The reaction leads
to ongoing itching, swelling and redness. People with atopic dermatitis may be
more sensitive because their skin lacks certain proteins that maintain the
skin's barrier to water.

Atopic dermatitis is most common in infants. It may start as early as age 2 to
6 months. Many people outgrow it by early adulthood.

![Dermatitis - atopic in an
infant](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/2390.jpg)

People with atopic dermatitis often have asthma or seasonal allergies. There
is often a family history of allergies such as asthma, hay fever, or eczema.
People with atopic dermatitis often test positive to allergy skin tests.
However, atopic dermatitis is not caused by allergies.

The following can make atopic dermatitis symptoms worse:

      * Allergies to pollen, mold, dust mites, or animals
      * Cold and dry air in the winter
      * Colds or the flu
      * Contact with irritants and chemicals
      * Contact with rough materials, such as wool
      * Dry skin
      * Emotional stress
      * Drying out of the skin from taking frequent baths or showers and swimming very often
      * Getting too hot or too cold, as well as sudden changes of temperature
      * Perfumes or dyes added to skin lotions or soaps 

## Symptoms

Skin changes may include:

      * Blisters with oozing and crusting
      * Dry skin all over the body, or areas of bumpy skin on the back of the arms and front of the thighs
      * Ear discharge or bleeding
      * Raw areas of the skin from scratching
      * Skin color changes, such as more or less color than the normal skin tone
      * Skin redness or inflammation around the blisters
      * Thickened or leather-like areas, which can occur after long-term irritation and scratching 
![Dermatitis - atopic on the
legs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/2560.jpg)

The type and location of the rash can depend on the age of the person:

      * In children younger than age 2, the rash may begin on the face, scalp, hands, and feet. The rash is often itchy and forms blisters that ooze and crust over.
      * In older children and adults, the rash is more often seen on the inside of the knees and elbow. It can also appear on the neck, hands, and feet.
      * In adults, the rash may be limited to the hands, eyelids, or genitals.  

      * Rashes may occur anywhere on the body during a bad outbreak. 

Intense itching is common. Itching may start even before the rash appears.
Atopic dermatitis is often called the "itch that rashes" because the itching
starts, and then the skin rash follows as a result of scratching.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will look at your skin and do a physical exam. You
may need a skin biopsy to confirm the diagnosis or rule out other causes of
dry, itchy skin.

Diagnosis is based on:

      * How your skin looks
      * Your personal and family history

Allergy skin testing may be helpful for people with:

      * Hard-to-treat atopic dermatitis
      * Other allergy symptoms
      * Skin rashes that form only on certain areas of the body after exposure to a specific chemical

Your provider may order cultures for infection of the skin. If you have atopic
dermatitis you may get infections easily.

## Treatment

SKIN CARE AT HOME

Daily skin care may cut down on the need for medicines.

![Atopic dermatitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19323.jpg)

To help you avoid scratching your rash or skin:

      * Use a moisturizer, topical steroid cream, or other medicine your provider prescribes.
      * Take antihistamine medicines by mouth to reduce severe itching.
      * Keep your fingernails cut short. Wear light gloves during sleep if nighttime scratching is a problem. 

Keep your skin moist by using ointments (such as petroleum jelly), creams, or
lotions 2 to 3 times a day. Choose skin products that do not contain alcohol,
scents, dyes, and other chemicals. A humidifier to keep home air moist will
also help.

Avoid things that make symptoms worse, such as:

      * Foods, such as eggs, that may cause an allergic reaction in a very young child, (always talk to your provider first)
      * Irritants, such as wool and lanolin
      * Strong soaps or detergents, as well as chemicals and solvents
      * Sudden changes in body temperature and stress, which may cause sweating
      * Triggers that cause allergy symptoms 

When washing or bathing:

      * Expose your skin to water for as short a time as possible. Short, cooler baths are better than long, hot baths.
      * Use gentle body washes and cleansers instead of regular soaps.
      * Do not scrub or dry your skin too hard or for too long.
      * Apply lubricating creams, lotions, or ointment to your skin while it is still damp after bathing. This will help trap moisture in your skin. 

MEDICINES

At this time, allergy shots are not used to treat atopic dermatitis.

Antihistamines taken by mouth may help with itching or allergies. You can
often buy these medicines without a prescription.

Atopic dermatitis is usually treated with medicines placed directly on the
skin or scalp. These are called topical medicines:

      * You will probably be prescribed a mild cortisone (steroid) cream or ointment at first. You may need a stronger medicine if this does not work.
      * Medicines called topical immunomodulators (TIMs) may be prescribed for anyone over 2 years old. Ask your provider about concerns over a possible cancer risk with the use of these medicines.
      * Creams or ointments that contain coal tar or anthralin may be used for thickened areas.
      * Barrier repair creams containing ceramides may be used. 

Wet-wrap treatment with topical corticosteroids may help control the
condition. But, it may lead to an infection.

Other treatments that may be used include:

      * Antibiotic creams or pills if your skin is infected
      * Drugs that suppress the immune system
      * Targeted biologic medicines that are designed to affect parts of the immune system involved in atopic dermatitis
      * Phototherapy, a treatment in which your skin is carefully exposed to ultraviolet (UV) light
      * Short-term use of systemic steroids (steroids given by mouth or through a vein) 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Atopic dermatitis lasts a long time. You can control it by treating it,
avoiding irritants, and by keeping your skin well-moisturized.

In children, the condition often starts to go away around age 5 to 6, but
flare-ups will often occur. In adults, the problem is generally a long-term or
returning condition.

Atopic dermatitis may be harder to control if it:

      * Begins at an early age
      * Involves a large amount of the body
      * Occurs along with allergies and asthma
      * Occurs in someone with a family history of eczema

## Possible Complications

Complications of atopic dermatitis include:

      * Infections of the skin caused by bacteria, fungi, or viruses
      * Permanent scars
      * Side effects from long-term use of medicines to control eczema 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * Atopic dermatitisÂ does not get better with home careÂ 
      * SymptomsÂ get worseÂ or treatment does not work
      * You have signs of infection (such as fever, redness, or pain)

## Prevention

Children who are breastfed until age 4 months may be less likely to get atopic
dermatitis.

If a child is not breastfed, using a formula that contains processed cow milk
protein (called partially hydrolyzed formula) may cut down on the chances of
developing atopic dermatitis.

## Alternative Names

Infantile eczema; Dermatitis - atopic; Eczema

## Images

      * ![Keratosis pilaris - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1920t.jpg)Keratosis pilaris - close-up
      * ![Atopic dermatitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19323t.jpg)Atopic dermatitis
      * ![Atopy on the ankles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2015t.jpg)Atopy on the ankles
      * ![Dermatitis - atopic in an infant](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2390t.jpg)Dermatitis - atopic in an infant
      * ![Eczema, atopic - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2407t.jpg)Eczema, atopic - close-up
      * ![Dermatitis - atopic on a young girl's face](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2497t.jpg)Dermatitis - atopic on a young girl's face
      * ![Keratosis pilaris on the cheek](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2523t.jpg)Keratosis pilaris on the cheek
      * ![Dermatitis - atopic on the legs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2560t.jpg)Dermatitis - atopic on the legs
      * ![Hyperlinearity in atopic dermatitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2733t.jpg)Hyperlinearity in atopic dermatitis

## References

Boguniewicz M, Leung DYM. Atopic dermatitis. In: Adkinson NF Jr, Bochner BS,
Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy: Principles and Practice_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 34.

Eichenfield LF, Boguniewicz M, Simpson EL, et al. Translating atopic
dermatitis management guidelines into practice for primary care providers.
_Pediatrics_. 2015;136(3):554-565. PMID: 26240216
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26240216.

McAleer MA, O'Regan GM, Irvine AD. Atopic dermatitis. In: Bolognia JL,
Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 12.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eczema](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Eczema_thumb.jpg)Eczema _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

