Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000418.htm    
                                Description: Eczema is a chronic skin disorder characterized by scaly and itchy rashes. Atopic dermatitis is the most common type.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Atopic dermatitis - self-care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000418.htm

# Atopic dermatitis - self-care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Eczema is a chronic skin disorder characterized by scaly and itchy rashes.
Atopic dermatitis is the most common type.

Atopic dermatitis is due to a skin reaction pattern, similar to an allergy,
that causes long-term inflammation of the skin. Most people with atopic
dermatitis also are missing certain proteins from the surface of the skin.
These proteins are important in maintaining the skin barrier function. As a
result, their skin is more easily irritated by minor irritants.

Taking care of your skin at home may reduce the need for medicines.

## Alternative names

Eczema - self-care

## Help for Itching and Scratching

Try not to scratch the rash or your skin in the inflamed area.

      * Relieve the itch by using moisturizers, topical steroids, or other prescribed creams.
      * Keep your child's fingernails cut short. Consider light gloves if nighttime scratching is a problem. 

Antihistamines taken by mouth may help with itching if you have allergies.
Often you can buy them over-the-counter. Some antihistamines can cause
sleepiness. But they may help with scratching while you sleep. Newer
antihistamines cause little or no sleepiness. However, they may not be as
effective in controlling the itch. These include:

      * Fexofenadine (Allegra)
      * Loratadine (Claritin, Alavert)
      * Cetirizine (Zyrtec) 

Benadryl or hydroxyzine may be taken at night time to relieve itching and
allow for sleep.

## Day-to-day Skin Care

Keep the skin lubricated or moisturized. Use ointment (such as petroleum
jelly), cream, or lotion 2 to 3 times a day. Moisturizers should be free of
alcohol, scents, dyes, fragrances, or chemicals you know you are allergic to.
Having a humidifier in the home may also help.

Moisturizers and emollients work best when they are applied to skin that is
wet or damp. These products soften the skin and help it retain moisture. After
washing or bathing, pat the skin dry and then apply the moisturizer right
away.

Different types of emollients or moisturizers may be used at different times
of the day. For the most part, you can apply these substances as often as you
need to keep your skin soft.

Avoid anything that you observe makes your symptoms worse. These may include:

      * Foods, such as eggs in a very young child. Always discuss with your health care provider first.
      * Wool, and other scratchy fabrics. Use smooth, textured clothing and bedding, such as cotton.
      * Sweating. Be careful not to over dress during warmer weather.
      * Strong soaps or detergents, as well as chemicals and solvents.
      * Sudden changes in body temperature and stress, which may cause sweating and worsen your condition.
      * Triggers that cause allergy symptoms.

When washing or bathing:

      * Bathe less often and keep water contact as brief as possible. Short, cooler baths are better than long, hot baths.
      * Use gentle skin care cleansers rather than traditional soaps. Use these products only on your face, underarms, genital areas, hands, and feet, or to remove visible dirt.
      * DO NOT scrub or dry the skin too hard or for too long.
      * After bathing, it is important to apply lubricating cream, lotion, or ointment on the skin while it is damp. This will help trap moisture in the skin.

The rash itself, as well as the scratching, often causes breaks in the skin
and may lead to infection. Keep an eye out for redness, warmth, swelling, or
other signs of infection.

## Medicines From Your Doctor

Topical corticosteroids are medicines used to treat conditions where your skin
becomes red, sore, or inflamed. "Topical" means you place it on the skin.
Topical corticosteroids may also be called topical steroids or topical
cortisones. These medicines help "calm" your skin when it is irritated.. Your
provider will tell you how much of this medicine to use and how often. DO NOT
use more medicine or use it more often than you are told.

You may need other prescription medicines such as barrier repair creams. These
help to replenish the normal surface of the skin and rebuild the broken
barrier.

Your provider may give you other medicines to use on your skin or take by
mouth. Be sure to follow the directions carefully.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

      * Eczema does not respond to moisturizers or avoiding allergens.
      * Symptoms worsen or treatment is ineffective.
      * You have signs of infection (such as fever, redness, or pain). 

## Images

      * ![Dermatitis - atopic on the arms](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2389t.jpg)Dermatitis - atopic on the arms
      * ![Hyperlinearity in atopic dermatitis - on the palm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2391t.jpg)Hyperlinearity in atopic dermatitis - on the palm

## References

Eichenfield LF, Boguniewicz M, Simpson EL, et al. Translating atopic
dermatitis management guidelines into practice for primary care providers.
_Pediatrics_. 2015;136(3):554-565. PMID: 26240216
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26240216.

Habif TP. Atopic dermatitis. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical Dermatology_. 6th ed.
St. Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2016:chap 5.

James WD, Berger TG, Elston DM. Atopic dermatitis, eczema, and noninfectious
immunodeficiency disorders. In: James WD, Berger TG, Elston DM, eds. _Andrews'
Diseases of the Skin: Clinical Dermatology_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 5.

Ong PY. Atopic dermatitis. In: Kellerman RD, Rakel DP, eds. _Conn' s Current
Therapy 2019_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:940-944.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Eczema

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

