Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000939.htm    
                                Description: Atopic dermatitis is a long-term (chronic) skin disorder that involves scaly and itchy rashes. It    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Atopic dermatitis - children - homecare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000939.htm

# Atopic dermatitis - children - homecare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Atopic dermatitis is a long-term (chronic) skin disorder that involves scaly
and itchy rashes. It's also called eczema. The condition is due to a
hypersensitive skin reaction that is similar to an allergy. It may also be
caused by defects in certain proteins in the surface of the skin. This leads
to ongoing inflammation of the skin.

Atopic dermatitis is most common in infants and children. It may start as
early as age 2 to 6 months. Many children outgrow it by early adulthood.

This condition can be difficult to control in children, so it's important to
work closely with your child's health care provider. Daily skin care is
important to help prevent flare-ups and keep the skin from being inflamed.

## Help for Itching and Scratching

Severe itching is common. Itching may start even before the rash appears.
Atopic dermatitis is often called the "itch that rashes" because the itching
starts, and then the skin rash follows as a result of scratching.

To help your child avoid scratching:

      * Use a moisturizer, topical steroid cream, barrier repair cream, or other medicine the child's provider prescribes.
      * Keep your child's fingernails cut short. Have them wear light gloves while sleeping if scratching at night is a problem.
      * Give antihistamines or other medicines by mouth as prescribed by your child's provider.
      * As much as possible, teach older children not to scratch itchy skin.

## Day-to-Day Skin Care

Daily skin care with allergen-free products may cut down on the need for
medicines.

Use moisturizing ointments (such as petroleum jelly), creams, or lotions.
Choose skin products that are made for people with eczema or sensitive skin.
These products do not contain alcohol, scents, dyes, and other chemicals.
Having a humidifier to keep air moist will also help.

Moisturizers and emollients work best when they are applied to skin that is
wet or damp. After washing or bathing, pat the skin dry and then apply the
moisturizer right away. Your provider may also recommend placing a dressing
over these skin moisturizing ointments.

When washing or bathing your child:

      * Bathe less often and keep water contact as brief as possible. Short, cooler baths are better than long, hot baths.
      * Use gentle skin care cleansers rather than traditional soaps, and use them only on your child's face, underarms, genital areas, hands, and feet.
      * Do not scrub or dry the skin too hard or for too long.
      * Right after bathing, apply lubricating cream, lotion, or ointment while skin is still damp to trap moisture.

Dress your child in soft, comfortable clothing, such as cotton clothes. Have
your child drink plenty of water. This may help add moisture to the skin.

Teach older children these same tips for skin care.

The rash itself, as well as the scratching, often causes breaks in the skin
and may lead to infection. Keep an eye out for redness, warmth, swelling, or
other signs of infection. Call your child's provider at the first sign of
infection.

## Avoid Triggers

The following triggers can make atopic dermatitis symptoms worse:

      * Allergies to pollen, mold, dust mites, or animals
      * Cold and dry air in the winter
      * Colds or the flu
      * Contact with irritants and chemicals
      * Contact with rough materials, such as wool
      * Dry skin
      * Emotional stress
      * Taking frequent baths or showers and swimming often, which can dry out skin
      * Getting too hot or too cold, as well as sudden changes of temperature
      * Perfumes or dyes added to skin lotions or soaps 

To prevent flare-ups, try to avoid:

      * Foods, such as eggs, that may cause an allergic reaction in a very young child. Always discuss with your provider first.
      * Wool, lanolin, and other scratchy fabrics. Use smooth, textured clothing and bedding, such as cotton.
      * Sweating. Be careful not to over dress your child during warmer weather.
      * Strong soaps or detergents, as well as chemicals and solvents.
      * Sudden changes in body temperature, which may cause sweating and worsen your child's condition.
      * Stress. Watch for signs that your child feels frustrated or stressed and teach them ways to reduce stress such as taking deep breaths or thinking about things they enjoy.
      * Triggers that cause allergy symptoms. Do what you can to keep your home free of allergy triggers such as mold, dust, and pet dander.
      * Avoid using skin care products that contain alcohol. 

Using moisturizers, creams, or ointments every day as directed may help
prevent flares.

## Medicines From the Doctor

Antihistamines taken by mouth may help if allergies cause your child's itchy
skin. These medicines are often available over the counter and do not require
a prescription. Ask your child's provider what kind is right for your child.

Atopic dermatitis is usually treated with medicines placed directly on the
skin or scalp. These are called topical medicines:

      * The provider will probably prescribe a mild cortisone (steroid) cream or ointment at first. Topical steroids contain a hormone that helps "calm" your child's skin when it is swollen or inflamed. Your child may need a stronger medicine if this does not work.
      * Medicines called topical immunomodulators may be prescribed for anyone over 2 years old.
      * Creams or ointments that contain coal tar or anthralin may be used for thickened skin areas.
      * Moisturizers and creams containing ceramides that restore the barrier of the skin are also helpful.
      * A newer medicine called crisaborole (Eucrisa) may also help. 

Other treatments that may be used include:

      * Antibiotic creams or pills if your child's skin is infected
      * Drugs that suppress the immune system
      * Phototherapy, a medical treatment in which your child's skin is carefully exposed to ultraviolet (UV) light
      * Short-term use of systemic steroids (steroids given by mouth or through a vein)
      * A biologic injection called dupilumab (Dupixent) may be used for moderate to severe atopic dermatitis. 

Your child's provider will tell you how much of these medicines to use and how
often. DO NOT use more medicine or use it more often than the provider says.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your child's provider if:

      * Atopic dermatitis does not get better with home care
      * Symptoms get worse or treatment does not work
      * Your child has signs of infection, such as redness, pus or fluid-filled bumps on skin, fever, or pain 

## Alternative Names

Infantile eczema; Dermatitis - atopic children; Eczema - atopic - children

## References

Eichenfield LF, Tom WL, Berger TG, et al. Guidelines of care for the
management of atopic dermatitis: section 2. Management and treatment of atopic
dermatitis with topical therapies. _J Am Acad Dermatol_. 2014;71(1):116-132.
PMID: 24813302 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24813302.

Eichenfield LF, Tom WL, Chamlin SL, et al. Guidelines of care for the
management of atopic dermatitis: section 1. Diagnosis and assessment of atopic
dermatitis. _J Am Acad Dermatol_. 2014;70(2):338-351. PMID: 24290431
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24290431.

McAleer MA, O'Regan GM, Irvine AD. Atopic dermatitis. In: Bolognia JL,
Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 12.

Sidbury R, Davis DM, Cohen DE, et al. Guidelines of care for the management of
atopic dermatitis: section 3. Management and treatment with phototherapy and
systemic agents. _J Am Acad Dermatol_. 2014;71(2):327-349. PMID: 24813298
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24813298.

Sidbury R, Tom WL, Bergman JN, et al. Guidelines of care for the management of
atopic dermatitis: section 4. Prevention of disease flares and use of
adjunctive therapies and approaches. _J Am Acad Dermatol_.
2014;71(6):1218-1233. PMID: 25264237 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25264237.

Tom WL, Eichenfield LF. Eczematous disorders. In: Eichenfield LF, Frieden IJ,
Mathes EF, Zaenglein AL, eds. _Neonatal and Infant Dermatology_. 3rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 15.

## Review Date 7/13/2018

Updated by: Kevin Berman, MD, PhD, Atlanta Center for Dermatologic Disease,
Atlanta, GA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Eczema

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

