Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000688.htm    
                                Description: Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or ALS, is a disease of the nerve cells in the brain, brain stem and spinal cord that control voluntary muscle movement.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000688.htm

# Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or ALS, is a disease of the nerve cells in the
brain, brain stem and spinal cord that control voluntary muscle movement.

ALS is also known as Lou Gehrig disease.

## Causes

One out of 10 cases of ALS is due to a genetic defect. The cause is unknown in
most other cases.

In ALS, motor nerve cells (neurons) waste away or die, and can no longer send
messages to muscles. This eventually leads to muscle weakening, twitching, and
an inability to move the arms, legs, and body. The condition slowly gets
worse. When the muscles in the chest area stop working, it becomes hard or
impossible to breathe.

ALS affects approximately 5 out of every 100,000 people worldwide.

Having a family member who has a hereditary form of the disease is a risk
factor for ALS. Other risks include military service. Some risk factors are
controversial.

## Symptoms

Symptoms usually do not develop until after age 50, but they can start in
younger people. People with ALS have a loss of muscle strength and
coordination that eventually gets worse and makes it impossible for them to do
routine tasks such as going up steps, getting out of a chair, or swallowing.

Weakness can first affect the arms or legs, or the ability to breathe or
swallow. As the disease gets worse, more muscle groups develop problems.

ALS does not affect the senses (sight, smell, taste, hearing, touch). Most
people are able to think normally, although a small number develop dementia,
causing problems with memory.

Muscle weakness starts inÂ one body part, such as the arm or hand, and slowly
gets worse until it leads to the following:

      * Difficulty lifting, climbing stairs, and walking
      * Difficulty breathing
      * Difficulty swallowing -- choking easily, drooling, or gagging
      * Head drop due to weakness of the neck muscles
      * Speech problems, such as a slow or abnormal speech pattern (slurring of words)
      * Voice changes, hoarseness

Other findings include:

      * Depression
      * Muscle cramps
      * Muscle stiffness, called spasticity
      * Muscle contractions, called fasciculations
      * Weight loss

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you and ask about your medical history
and symptoms.

The physical exam may show:

      * Weakness, often beginning inÂ one area
      * Muscle tremors, spasms, twitching, or loss of muscle tissue
      * Twitching of the tongue (common)
      * Abnormal reflexes
      * Stiff or clumsy walk
      * Decreased or increased reflexes at the joints
      * Difficulty controlling crying or laughing (sometimes called emotional incontinence)
      * Loss of gag reflex 

Tests that may be done include:

      * Blood tests to rule out other conditions 
      * Breathing test to see if lung muscles are affected 
      * Cervical spine CT or MRI to be sure there is no disease or injury to the neck, which can mimic ALS 
      * Electromyography to see which nerves or muscles do not work properly 
      * Genetic testing, if there is a family history of ALS 
      * Head CT or MRI to rule out other conditions 
      * Swallowing studies 
      * Spinal tap (lumbar puncture) 

## Treatment

There is no known cure for ALS. A medicine called riluzole helps slow the
symptoms and helps people live slightly longer.

Two medicines are available that help slow the progression of symptoms and may
help people live slightly longer:

      * Riluzole (Rilutek)
      * Edaravone (Radicava)

Treatments to control other symptoms include:

      * Baclofen or diazepam for spasticity that interferes with daily activities 
      * Trihexyphenidyl or amitriptyline for people with problems swallowing their own saliva 

Physical therapy, rehabilitation, use of braces or a wheelchair, or other
measures may be needed to help with muscle function and general health.

People with ALS tend to lose weight. The illness itself increases the need for
food and calories. At the same time, problems with choking and swallowing make
it hard to eat enough. To help with feeding, a tube may be placed into the
stomach. A dietitian who specializes in ALS can give advice on healthy eating.

Breathing devices include machines that are used only at night, and constant
mechanical ventilation.

Medicine for depression may be needed if a person with ALS is feeling sad.
They also should discuss their wishes regarding artificial ventilation with
their families and providers.

## Support Groups

Emotional support is vital in coping with the disorder, because mental
functioning is not affected. Groups such as the ALS Association may be
available to help people who are coping with the disorder.

Support for people who are caring for someone with ALS is also available, and
may be very helpful.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Over time, people with ALS lose the ability to function and care for
themselves. Death often occurs within 3 to 5 years of diagnosis. About 1 in 4
people survive for more than 5 years after diagnosis. Some people live much
longer, but they typically need help breathing from a ventilator or other
device.

## Possible Complications

Complications of ALS include:

      * Breathing in food or fluid (aspiration)
      * Loss of ability to care for self
      * Lung failure
      * Pneumonia
      * Pressure sores
      * Weight loss

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You have symptoms of ALS, particularly if you have a family history of the disorder 
      * You or someone else has been diagnosed with ALS and symptoms get worse or new symptoms develop 

Increased difficulty swallowing, difficulty breathing, and episodes of apnea
are symptoms that require immediate attention.

## Prevention

You may want to see a genetic counselor if you have a family history of ALS.

## Alternative Names

Lou Gehrig disease; ALS; Upper and lower motor neuron disease; Motor neuron
disease

## Images

      * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Fearon C, Murray B, Mitsumoto H. Disorders of upper and lower motor neurons.
In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology
in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 98.

Shaw PJ. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and other motor neuron diseases. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 419.

van Es MA, Hardiman O, Chio A, et al. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. _Lancet_.
2017;390(10107):2084-2098. PMID: 28552366
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28552366.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Nerve cell](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NerveCell_thumb.jpg)Amyotrophic
Lateral Sclerosis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

