Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001187.htm    
                                Description: Every part of your body needs water to function. When you are healthy, your body is able to balance the amount of water that enters or leaves your body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fluid imbalance

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001187.htm

# Fluid imbalance

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Every part of your body needs water to function. When you are healthy, your
body is able to balance the amount of water that enters or leaves your body.

A fluid imbalance may occur when you lose more water or fluid than your body
can take in. It can also occur when you take in more water or fluid than your
body is able to get rid of.

## Causes

Your body is constantly losing water through breathing, sweating, and
urinating. If you do not take in enough fluids or water, you become
dehydrated.

Your body may also have a hard time getting rid of fluids. As a result, excess
fluid builds up in the body. This is called fluid overload (volume overload).
This can lead to edema (excess fluid in the skin and tissues).

Many medical problems can cause fluid imbalance:

      * After surgery, the body usually retains large amounts of fluid for several days, causing swelling of the body.
      * In heart failure, fluid collects in the lungs, liver, blood vessels, and body tissues because the heart does a poor job of pumping it to the kidneys.
      * When the kidneys do not work well because of long-term (chronic) kidney disease, the body cannot get rid of unneeded fluids.
      * The body may lose too much fluid due to diarrhea, vomiting, severe blood loss, or high fever.
      * Lack of a hormone called antidiuretic hormone (ADH) can cause the kidneys to get rid of too much fluid. This results in extreme thirst and dehydration. 

Often, a high or low level of sodium or potassium is present as well.

Medicines can also affect fluid balance. The most common are water pills
(diuretics) to treat blood pressure.

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the specific condition that is causing the fluid
imbalance.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you or your child has signs of dehydration
or swelling, in order to prevent more serious complications.

## Alternative Names

Water imbalance; Fluid imbalance - dehydration; Fluid buildup; Fluid overload;
Volume overload; Loss of fluids; Edema - fluid imbalance; Hyponatremia - fluid
imbalance; Hypernatremia - fluid imbalance; Hypokalemia - fluid imbalance;
Hyperkalemia - fluid imbalance

## References

Berl T, Parikh C. Disorders of water metabolism. In: Johnson RJ, Feehally J,
Floege J, eds. _Comprehensive Clinical Nephrology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 8.

Hall JE. Urine concentration and dilution: regulation of extracellular fluid
osmolarity and sodium concentration. In: Hall JE, ed. _Guyton and Hall
Textbook of Medical Physiology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 29.

## Review Date 11/20/2017

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Equilibrio
hidroelectrolÃ­tico](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FluidandElectrolyteBalance_thumb.jpg)Fluid
and Electrolyte Balance _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

