Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002471.htm    
                                Description: Water is a combination of hydrogen and oxygen. It is the basis for the fluids of the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Water in diet

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002471.htm

# Water in diet

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Water is a combination of hydrogen and oxygen. It is the basis for the fluids
of the body.

## Function

Water makes up more than two-thirds of the weight of the human body. Without
water, humans would die in a few days. All the cells and organs need water to
function.

Water serves as a lubricant. It makes up saliva and the fluids surrounding the
joints. Water regulates the body temperature through perspiration. It also
helps prevent and relieve constipation by moving food through the intestines.

## Food Sources

You get some of the water in your body through the foods you eat. Some of the
water is made during the process of metabolism.

You also get water through liquid foods and beverages, such as soup, milk,
tea, coffee, soda, drinking water, and juices. Alcohol is not a source of
water because it is a diuretic. It causes the body to release water.

## Side Effects

If you do not get enough water each day, the body fluids will be out of
balance, causing dehydration. When dehydration is severe, it can be life
threatening.

## Recommendations

The Dietary Reference Intake for water is between 91 and 125 fluid ounces (2.7
to 3.7 liters) of water per day for adults.

However, individual needs will depend on your weight, age, and activity level,
as well as any medical conditions you may have. Keep in mind that this is the
total amount you get from both food and beverages every day. There is no
specific recommendation for how much water you should drink.

If you drink fluids when you feel thirsty and have beverages with meals, you
should get enough water to keep you hydrated. Try to choose water over
sweetened drinks. These beverages can cause you to take in too many calories.

As you get older your thirst may change. It is always important to take in
fluids throughout the day. If you are concerned you may not be consuming
enough water have a conversation with your doctor.

## Alternative Names

Diet - water; H2O

## References

Institute of Medicine. Dietary Reference Intakes for water, potassium, sodium,
chloride, and sulfate (2005). National Academies Press.
www.nap.edu/read/10925/chapter/1. Accessed October 16, 2019.

Ramu A, Neild P. Diet and nutrition. In: Naish J,Â Court SD, eds. _Medical
Sciences_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 16.

## Review Date 7/3/2019

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CDN, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Equilibrio
hidroelectrolÃ­tico](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FluidandElectrolyteBalance_thumb.jpg)Fluid
and Electrolyte Balance _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

