Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000315.htm    
                                Description: Magnesium deficiency is a condition in which the amount of magnesium in the blood is lower than normal. The medical name of this condition is hypomagnesemia.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Magnesium deficiency

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000315.htm

# Magnesium deficiency

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Magnesium deficiency is a condition in which the amount of magnesium in the
blood is lower than normal. The medical name of this condition is
hypomagnesemia.

## Causes

Every organ in the body, especially the heart, muscles, and kidneys, needs the
mineral magnesium. It also contributes to the makeup of teeth and bones.
Magnesium is needed for many functions in the body. This includes the physical
and chemical processes in the body that convert or use energy (metabolism).

When the level of magnesium in the body drops below normal, symptoms develop
due to low magnesium.

Common causes of low magnesium include:

      * Alcohol use
      * Burns that affect a large area of the body
      * Chronic diarrhea
      * Excessive urination (polyuria), such as in uncontrolled diabetes and during recovery from acute kidney failure
      * Hyperaldosteronism (disorder in which the adrenal gland releases too much of the hormone aldosterone into the blood)
      * Kidney tubule disorders
      * Malabsorption syndromes, such as celiac disease and inflammatory bowel disease
      * Malnutrition
      * Medicines including amphotericin, cisplatin, cyclosporine, diuretics, proton pump inhibitors, and aminoglycoside antibiotics
      * Pancreatitis (swelling and inflammation of the pancreas)
      * Excessive sweating

## Symptoms

Common symptoms include:

      * Abnormal eye movements (nystagmus)
      * Convulsions
      * Fatigue
      * Muscle spasms or cramps
      * Muscle weakness
      * Numbness

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will do a physical exam and ask about your symptoms.

Tests that may be ordered include anÂ electrocardiogram (ECG).

A blood test will be ordered to check your magnesium level. Normal range is
1.3 to 2.1 mEq/L (0.65 to 1.05 mmol/L).Â

Other blood and urine testsÂ that may be done include:

      * Calcium blood testÂ 
      * Comprehensive metabolic panel
      * Potassium blood test
      * Urine magnesium test

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the type of low magnesium problem and may include:

      * Fluids given through a vein (IV)
      * Magnesium by mouth or through a vein
      * Medicines to relieve symptoms

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outcome depends on the condition that is causing the problem.

## Possible Complications

Untreated, this condition can lead to:

      * Cardiac arrest
      * Respiratory arrest
      * Death

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

When your body's magnesium level drops too much, it can be a life-threatening
emergency. Call your provider right away if you have symptoms of this
condition.

## Prevention

Treating the condition that is causing low magnesium can help.

If you play sports or do other vigorous activity, drink fluids such as sports
drinks. They contain electrolytesÂ to keep your magnesium level in a healthy
range.

## Alternative Names

Low blood magnesium; Magnesium - low; Hypomagnesemia

## References

Pfennig CL, Slovis CM. Electrolyte disorders. In: Hockberger RS, Walls RM,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018:chap 117.

Smogorzewski MJ, Stubbs JR, Yu ASL. Disorders of calcium, magnesium, and
phosphate balance. In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL,
eds. _Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 19.

## Review Date 4/8/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Equilibrio
hidroelectrolÃ­tico](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FluidandElectrolyteBalance_thumb.jpg)Fluid
and Electrolyte Balance _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

