Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003394.htm    
                                Description: The capillary nail refill test is a quick test done on the nail beds. It is used to monitor dehydration and the amount of blood flow to tissue.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Capillary nail refill test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003394.htm

# Capillary nail refill test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The capillary nail refill test is a quick test done on the nail beds. It is
used to monitor dehydration and the amount of blood flow to tissue.

## How the Test is Performed

Pressure is applied to the nail bed until it turns white. This indicates that
the blood has been forced from the tissue under the nail. It is called
blanching. Once the tissue has blanched, pressure is removed.

While the person holds their hand above their heart, the health care provider
measures the time it takes for blood to return to the tissue. Return of blood
is indicated by the nail turning back to a pink color.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Remove colored nail polish before this test.

## How the Test will Feel

There will be minor pressure to the bed of your nail. This should not cause
discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

Tissues need oxygen to survive. Oxygen is carried to various parts of the body
by the blood (vascular) system.

This test measures how well the vascular system works in your hands and feet
-- the parts of your body that are farthest from the heart.

## Normal Results

If there is good blood flow to the nail bed, a pink color should return in
less than 2 seconds after pressure is removed.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Blanch times that are greater than 2 seconds may indicate:

      * Dehydration
      * Hypothermia
      * Peripheral vascular disease (PVD)
      * Shock

## Alternative Names

Nail blanch test; Capillary refill time

## Images

      * ![Nail blanch test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9154t.jpg)Nail blanch test

## References

McGrath JL, Bachmann DJ. Vital signs measurement. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB,
Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency
Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 1.

Stearns DA, Peak DA. Hand. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 43.

White CJ. Atherosclerotic peripheral arterial disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 79.

## Review Date 4/26/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![A photograph of a man administering first aid to a
woman](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TI_FirstAid_thumb.jpg)First Aid _Read
more_

![Equilibrio
hidroelectrolÃ­tico](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FluidandElectrolyteBalance_thumb.jpg)Fluid
and Electrolyte Balance _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

