Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000332.htm    
                                Description: Milk-alkali syndrome is a condition in which there is a high level of calcium in the body (hypercalcemia). This causes a shift in the body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Milk-alkali syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000332.htm

# Milk-alkali syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Milk-alkali syndrome is a condition in which there is a high level of calcium
in the body (hypercalcemia). This causes a shift in the body's acid/base
balance toward alkaline (metabolic alkalosis). As a result, there can be a
loss of kidney function.

## Causes

Milk-alkali syndrome is almost always caused by taking too many calcium
supplements, usually in the form of calcium carbonate. Calcium carbonate is a
common calcium supplement. It is often taken to prevent or treat bone loss
(osteoporosis). Calcium carbonate is also an ingredient found in antacids
(such as Tums).

A high level of vitamin D in the body, such as from taking supplements, can
worsen milk-alkali syndrome.

Calcium deposits in the kidneys and in other tissues can occur in milk-alkali
syndrome.

## Symptoms

In the beginning, the condition usually has no symptoms (asymptomatic). When
symptoms do occur, they can include:

      * Back, middle of the body, and low back pain in the kidney area (related to kidney stones)
      * Confusion, strange behavior
      * Constipation
      * Depression
      * Excessive urination
      * Fatigue
      * Irregular heartbeat (arrhythmia)
      * Nausea or vomiting
      * Other problems that can result from kidney failure 

## Exams and Tests

Calcium deposits within the tissue of the kidney (nephrocalcinosis) may be
seen on:

      * X-rays
      * CT scan
      * Ultrasound

Other tests used to make a diagnosis may include:

      * Electrolyte levels
      * Electrocardiogram (ECG)
      * Electroencephalogram (EEG)  

      * Glomerular filtration rate (GFR)
      * Blood calcium level 

## Treatment

In severe cases, treatment involves giving fluids through the vein (by IV).
Otherwise, treatment involves drinking fluids along with reducing or stopping
calcium supplements and antacids that contain calcium. Vitamin D supplements
also need to be reduced or stopped.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

This condition is often reversible if kidney function remains normal. Severe
prolonged cases may lead to permanent kidney failure requiring dialysis.

## Possible Complications

The most common complications include:

      * Calcium deposits in tissues (calcinosis)
      * Kidney failure
      * Kidney stones

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your health care provider if:

      * You take a lot of calcium supplements or you often use antacids that contain calcium, such as Tums.Â You may need to be checked for milk-alkali syndrome.
      * You have any symptoms that might suggest kidney problems. 

## Prevention

If you use calcium-containing antacids often, tell your provider about
digestive problems. If you are trying to prevent osteoporosis, do not take
more than 1.2 grams of calcium per day unless instructed by your provider.

## Alternative Names

Calcium-alkali syndrome; Cope syndrome; Burnett syndrome; Hypercalcemia;Â
Calcium metabolism disorder

## References

Bringhurst FR, Demay MB, Kronenberg HM. Hormones and disorders of mineral
metabolism. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds.
_Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 28.

DuBose TD. Metabolic alkalosis. In: Gilbert SJ, Weiner DE, eds. _National
Kidney Foundation Primer on Kidney Diseases_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 14.

McNutt MK, Kozar RA. Disorders of calcium and magnesium metabolism. In:
Vincent J-L, Abraham E, Moore FA, Kochanek PM, Fink MP, eds. _Textbook of
Critical Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 106.

Smogorzewski MJ, Stubbs JR, Yu ASL. Disorders of calcium, magnesium, and
phosphate balance. In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL,
eds. _Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 19.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Equilibrio
hidroelectrolÃ­tico](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FluidandElectrolyteBalance_thumb.jpg)Fluid
and Electrolyte Balance _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

