Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003485.htm    
                                Description: Chloride is a type of electrolyte. It works with other electrolytes such as potassium, sodium, and carbon dioxide (CO2). These substances help keep the proper balance of body fluids and maintain the body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chloride test - blood

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003485.htm

# Chloride test - blood

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chloride is a type of electrolyte. It works with other electrolytes such as
potassium, sodium, and carbon dioxide (CO2). These substances help keep the
proper balance of body fluids and maintain the body's acid-base balance.

This article is about the laboratory test used to measure the amount of
chloride in the fluid portion (serum) of the blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed. Most of the time blood is drawn from a vein located
on the inside of the elbow or the back of the hand.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Many medicines can interfere with blood test results.

      * Your health care provider will tell you if you need to stop taking any medicines before you have this test.
      * DO NOT stop or change your medicines without talking to your provider first. 

## Why the Test is Performed

You may have this test if you have signs that your body's fluid level or acid-
base balance is disturbed.

This test is most often ordered with other blood tests, such as a basic or
comprehensive metabolic panel.

## Normal Results

A typical normal range is 96 to 106 milliequivalents per liter (mEq/L) or 96
to 106 millimoles per liter (millimol/L).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

The example above shows the common measurement range for results for these
tests. Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different
specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A greater-than-normal level of chloride is called hyperchloremia. It may be
due to:

      * Addison disease
      * Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (used to treat glaucoma)
      * Diarrhea
      * Metabolic acidosis
      * Respiratory alkalosis (compensated)
      * Renal tubular acidosis

A lower-than-normal level of chloride is called hypochloremia. It may be due
to:

      * Bartter syndrome
      * Burns
      * Congestive heart failure
      * Dehydration
      * Excessive sweating
      * Hyperaldosteronism
      * Metabolic alkalosis
      * Respiratory acidosis (compensated)
      * Syndrome of inappropriate diuretic hormone secretion (SIADH)
      * Vomiting 

This test may also be done to help rule out or diagnose:

      * Multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) II
      * Primary hyperparathyroidism 

## Alternative Names

Serum chloride test

## Images

      * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Giavarina D. Blood biochemistry: measuring major plasma electrolytes. In:
Ronco C, Bellomo R, Kellum JA, Ricci Z, eds. _Critical Care Nephrology_. 3rd
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 54.

Seifter JR. Acid-base disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 118.

Tolwani AJ, Saha MK, Wille KM. Metabolic acidosis and alkalosis. In: Vincent
J-L, Abraham E, Moore FA, Kochanek PM, Fink MP, eds. _Textbook of Critical
Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 104.

## Review Date 4/29/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Equilibrio
hidroelectrolÃ­tico](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FluidandElectrolyteBalance_thumb.jpg)Fluid
and Electrolyte Balance _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

