

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

_Salmonella_

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# Multistate Outbreak of Human _Salmonella_ Montevideo Infections (Final
Update)

Minus

Related Pages

NOTICE: This outbreak is over. The information on this page has been archived
for historical purposes only and will not be updated.

Posted May 4, 2010

### Outbreak Summary

CDC has been collaborating with public health officials in many states, the
U.S. Department of Agriculture's Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS),
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and the State of Rhode Island to
investigate a multistate outbreak of _Salmonella_ serotype Montevideo
infections. Investigators are using DNA analysis of _Salmonella_ bacteria
obtained through diagnostic testing to identify cases of illness that may be
part of this outbreak.

As of 9:00 pm EST on April 28, 2010, a total of 272 individuals infected with
the outbreak strain of _Salmonella_ Montevideo, which displays either of two
closely related pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) patterns, have been
reported from 44 states and District of Columbia since July 1, 2009. The
number of ill persons identified in each state with this strain is as follows:
AK (1), AL (2), AZ (9), CA (32), CO (5), CT (5), DC (1), DE (3), FL (7), GA
(3), IA (1), ID (4), IL (28), IN (4), KS (5), LA (2), MA (16), MD (1), ME (1),
MI (4), MN (7), MO (3), MS (1), NC (11), ND (1), NE (3), NH (2), NJ (9), NM
(2), NY (20), OH (9), OK (1), OR (10), PA (7), RI (2), SC (1), SD (4), TN (5),
TX (7), UT (9), VA (1), WA (19), WI (1), WV (1), and WY (2). Because the main
_Salmonella_ Montevideo outbreak PFGE pattern is commonly occurring in the
United States, some of these illnesses are not part of this outbreak.

_Salmonella_ Senftenberg, a different serotype of _Salmonella_ , has been
found in food samples from retail and a patient household during this outbreak
investigation. PulseNet identified 11 persons who had illness caused by
_Salmonella_ Senftenberg with matching PFGE patterns between July 1, 2009 and
April 28, 2010. Public health officials have interviewed 9 of the 11 ill
persons with this strain of _Salmonella_ Senftenberg and determined that two
purchased a recalled salami product during the week before their illness
began. These 11 cases are not included in the overall case count reported
above.

Among the persons with reported dates available, illnesses began between July
4, 2009 and April 14, 2010. Infected individuals range in age from 1 year old
to 93 years old and the median age is 37 years. Fifty-three percent of
patients are male. Among the 203 patients with available information, 52 (26%)
were hospitalized. No deaths have been reported.

The outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of
persons who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi
curve. Illnesses that occurred after April 9, 2010 might not yet be reported
due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the
illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 3 weeks. Please see the
Timeline for Reporting Cases of _Salmonella_ Infection.

The numbers of new cases have declined substantially since the peak in
November 2009, and this outbreak strain of _Salmonella_ Montevideo appears to
have returned to the expected baseline of approximately 3 to 4 cases reported
per month. Illnesses may still be reported among people who ate recalled
products since some of the recalled products have long shelf-lives and could
continue to cause illness if consumed. Consumers should avoid eating recalled
products.

### Investigation of the Outbreak

During January 16-21, 2010, CDC and public health officials in multiple states
conducted an epidemiologic study by comparing foods eaten by 41 ill and 41
well persons. Preliminary analysis of this study has suggested salami as a
possible source of illness. Ill persons (58%) were significantly more likely
than well persons (16%) to report eating salami. Additionally, 16 ill persons
have been identified who purchased the same type of sliced salami variety pack
at different grocery store locations before becoming ill; three additional ill
persons have been identified who purchased a similar type of sliced salami
deli tray before becoming ill. These variety packs and deli trays all included
salamis made with black pepper, which was added after the lethality step.
These data suggest this product is the source of some of these illnesses. This
sliced salami variety pack and sliced salami deli tray were recalled by
Daniele International Inc. CDC and public health officials in multiple states
interviewed ill persons to ask them about the foods they ate during the week
before they became ill as well as to collect shopper card information.

### Recall Information

FSIS has issued several news releases announcing Daniele International Inc.
recalled products. News releases were issued on January 23, 2010 (initial
recall), January 31st (expanded recall), February 4th (updated information of
January 23rd recall), and February 16th (expanded recall). Many of these
products can have an extended shelf life of up to one year. These products
were distributed to retail establishments nationwide.

Testing by the Rhode Island Department of Public Health found the outbreak
strain of _Salmonella_ Montevideo in samples of black and red pepper intended
for use in the production of Italian-style meats at Daniele International Inc.
Since then, several recalls have been issued.

On February 25, 2010, Wholesome Spice, Brooklyn, New York, announced a recall
of 25 pound boxes of crushed red pepper sold between April 6, 2009 and January
20, 2010. Wholesome Spice sells spices directly to commercial customers, who
may have incorporated them into their own products.

On March 5, 2010, Mincing Overseas Spice Company of Dayton, New Jersey,
voluntarily recalled two lots of black pepper due to possible _Salmonella_
contamination. Black pepper was not distributed at retail level and was
shipped to FL, IA, IL, IN, MA, OK, NJ, NY, PA, RI, TX, and WI. Customers who
purchased black pepper from any parts of Lots 3258 and 3309 should place these
lots or any spice blends made from these lots under their control on hold and
contact Mincing Overseas Spice Company.

To date, there have been 11 additional company recalls associated with
Minicing Overseas Spice and Wholesome Spice Companies. Consumers are advised
to review FDA's recall site for the latest information on recalled products
containing black or red pepper.

### Laboratory Testing of Products and Ingredients

The initial recall followed isolation of _Salmonella_ Senftenberg in a private
laboratory from a retail sample of a salami product produced by Daniele
International; this product was different than the sliced salami variety pack
purchased at different grocery store locations by the 16 ill persons, but the
same product purchased by three ill persons. FSIS reviewed and affirmed these
private laboratory results. The _Salmonella_ Senftenberg strain initially
found by the private laboratory was different from the _Salmonella_ Montevideo
strain causing the outbreak. However, the Washington State Department of
Health subsequently tested the bacterial culture provided by the private
laboratory (the salami was not provided) and identified two different
_Salmonella_ serotypes: _Salmonella_ Senftenberg (the strain found by the
private lab) and _Salmonella_ Montevideo indistinguishable from the outbreak
strain. In addition, the Iowa Department of Public Health and public health
officials in Plymouth County, Iowa investigated a patient with _Salmonella_
Montevideo infection indistinguishable from the outbreak strain and discovered
an open sliced salami variety pack frozen at the patient's home. The patient
had eaten this product before becoming ill. This sliced salami variety pack
was the same as that purchased by 16 other ill persons. Using DNA analysis,
the University of Iowa Hygienic Laboratory (Iowa's public health laboratory)
confirmed that the _Salmonella_ isolated from this leftover salami was
indistinguishable from the outbreak strain of _Salmonella_ Montevideo.

The recall was expanded as a result of a confirmed finding of _Salmonella_ in
an unopened salami product reported by the Illinois Department of Public
Health. The product was sampled during the course of an ongoing investigation
of a multistate outbreak of _Salmonella_ Montevideo illnesses. The product
tested was not included in the previous recall issued January 23, 2010, but is
a similar type of product bought by customers who later became sick and were
identified as part of the _Salmonella_ Montevideo investigation. Subsequent
testing revealed that the product contained the _Salmonella_ Senftenberg
strain. The company believes that black pepper is a possible source of
_Salmonella_ contamination.

On January 28, the Rhode Island Department of Health announcedExternal that
test results revealed that an opened container of black pepper used in the
manufacturing of at least some of the recalled products was positive for
_Salmonella_ Montevideo and that the DNA fingerprint matched the outbreak
strain.

Based on epidemiologic information, FSIS collected Panino products for
testing. On February 16, Salame Panino products, which contain crushed red
pepper, tested positive for _Salmonella_. The samples were subsequently
confirmed as _Salmonella_ Montevideo with the outbreak PFGE pattern. This
finding identified crushed red pepper as another source of contamination at
Daniele.

On February 17, results from laboratory testing of product from Illinois
revealed that the product contained the _Salmonella_ Senftenberg strain.

On February 25, the FDA released additional informationExternal about its
investigation of supply chains of both black and red pepper used in the
manufacturing of the recalled Italian style meat products. The Agency has
collected and is analyzing 153 composite pepper samples, which represent more
than 4,000 individual samples of black and red pepper. Samples from two lots
of crushed red pepper collected from Daniele International Inc. have tested
positive for positive for the same strain of _Salmonella_ Montevideo
associated with the outbreak.

CDC and its public health partners are continuing the epidemiologic
investigation to verify that the outbreak is controlled. CDC, USDA-FSIS, and
FDA continue to work closely to identify the specific products or ingredients
that became contaminated and how the contamination occurred and to identify
any other food vehicles that may be involved.

### Unique Features of this Outbreak Investigation

                    * There are over 2,500 serotypes of _Salmonella._ Serotype Montevideo is in the top 10 most common _Salmonella_ serotypes. Because the outbreak strain of _Salmonella_ Montevideo is the most common pattern for serotype Montevideo based on DNA analysis, detecting an outbreak is challenging. CDC developed and tested a new statistical method for figuring out whether the cases reported to the PulseNet database were above what was expected based on historical trends.
                    * Shopper card information was successfully used to determine specific brands of a product suspected to cause illness. Ill persons gave permission for public health officials to retrieve purchase information based on shopper card numbers. Additionally, a case-control study was conducted which suggested that the individuals who became ill ate salami/salame products a week prior to becoming ill.
                    * The recalled product contains ingredients regulated by two different federal agencies, FSIS and FDA, both of which were fully engaged in this investigation. FSIS regulates the meat used in the salami/salame and FDA regulates the spices.
                    * Samples from two spices, black pepper and crushed red pepper, have tested positive for _Salmonella_.

### Clinical Features/Signs and Symptoms

Most persons infected with _Salmonella_ develop diarrhea, fever, and abdominal
cramps 12-72 hours after infection. Infection is usually diagnosed by culture
of a stool sample. The illness usually lasts from 4 to 7 days. Although most
people recover without treatment, severe infections may occur. Infants,
elderly persons, and those with weakened immune systems are more likely than
others to develop severe illness. When severe infection occurs, _Salmonella_
may spread from the intestines to the bloodstream and then to other body sites
and can cause death unless the person is treated promptly with antibiotics.

More general information about _Salmonella_ can be found here under
_Salmonella_ FAQs.

### Advice to Consumers

                    * Recalled products may still be in grocery stores and in consumers' homes, including in the freezer. Recalled products should not be consumed. Consumers are advised to review the list of all recalled Italian-style meat products. Consumers should be aware of additional products containing black or red pepper that have been recalled. Consumers are advised to review FDA's recall siteExternal for a list of recalled products containing black or red pepper.
                    * Consumer with questions regarding the recall should contact the Daniele International, Inc. Hotline at (888) 345-4160 and its PR contact, Levick Strategic Communications at (202) 973-1335.
                    * If you have a recalled product, do not eat it; return it to the place of purchase or dispose of it in a closed plastic bag and placed in a sealed trash can to prevent people or animals, including wild animals, from eating it.
                    * No illness has been linked to salami products produced by other companies.
                    * Consumers with food safety questions can "Ask Karen," the FSIS virtual representative available 24 hours a day at AskKaren.govExternal.
                    * The toll-free USDA Meat and Poultry Hotline 1-888-MPHotline (1-888-674-6854) is available in English and Spanish and can be reached from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. EST Monday through Friday. Recorded food safety messages are available 24 hours a day.
                    * Consumers without Internet access can also call 1-800-CDC-INFO (1-800-232-4636), 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, for product recall information from the USDA-FSIS website and for other information on salmonellosis.
                    * Persons who think they might have become ill from eating a recalled product should consult their health care providers. Infants, elderly persons, and persons with impaired immune systems are more likely than others to develop severe illness.

### Additional Resources

                    * _Salmonella_ Montevideo Infections Associated with Salami Products Made with Contaminated Imported Black and Red Pepper--United States, July 2009-April 2010
                    * FDA Efforts to Work with the Spice Industry (April 20, 2010) Cdc-pdf[PDF - 2 pages]External
                    * Mincing Overseas Spice Company Voluntarily Recalls Two Lots of Black Pepper (March 5, 2010)External
                    * FDA _Salmonella_ Montevideo investigation update (February 25, 2010)External
                    * Wholesome Spice crushed red pepper recall (February 25, 2010)External
                    * Press release from Rhode Island Department of Health (February 25, 2010)External
                    * Press release from Rhode Island Department of Health (January 28, 2010)External
                    * Potentially Tainted Italian Sausage Recalled, Products from Rhode Island-based Firm May be Contaminated with _Salmonella_ External - Los Angeles County Department of Public Health
                    * Hygienic Laboratory First to Confirm _Salmonella_ in Nationwide OutbreakExternal - University of Iowa
                    * _Salmonella_ Outbreak Prompts Salami Recall, Oregon Public Health Officials are Tracking Cases Throughout the State Cdc-pdf[PDF - 3 pages]External - Oregon Department of Human Services

### CDC's Role in Food Safety

As an agency within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS),
CDC leads federal efforts to gather data on foodborne illnesses, investigate
foodborne illnesses and outbreaks, and monitor the effectiveness of prevention
and control efforts. CDC is not a food safety regulatory agency but works
closely with the food safety regulatory agencies, in particular with HHS's
U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Food Safety and Inspection
Service within the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). CDC also
plays a key role in building state and local health department epidemiology,
laboratory, and environmental health capacity to support foodborne disease
surveillance and outbreak response. Notably, CDC data can be used to help
document the effectiveness of regulatory interventions.

### Final Case Count Map

#### Persons infected with the outbreak strain of _Salmonella_ Montevideo, by
state, as of April 28, 2010 (n=272)

![Final Case Count Map: Persons infected with the outbreak strain of
Salmonella Montevideo, by state, as of April 28, 2010
\(n=272\)](/salmonella/2010/images/montevideo-5-4-10-map.jpg)

As of April 28, 2010, a total of 272 individuals infected with the outbreak
strain of _Salmonella_ Montevideo, which displays either of two closely
related pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) patterns, have been reported
from 44 states and District of Columbia since July 1, 2009. The number of ill
persons identified in each state with this strain is as follows: AK (1), AL
(2), AZ (9), CA (32), CO (5), CT (5), DC (1), DE (3), FL (7), GA (3), IA (1),
ID (4), IL (28), IN (4), KS (5), LA (2), MA (16), MD (1), ME (1), MI (4), MN
(7), MO (3), MS (1), NC (11), ND (1), NE (3), NH (2), NJ (9), NM (2), NY (20),
OH (9), OK (1), OR (10), PA (7), RI (2), SC (1), SD (4), TN (5), TX (7), UT
(9), VA (1), WA (19), WI (1), WV (1), and WY (2). Because the main
_Salmonella_ Montevideo outbreak PFGE pattern is commonly occurring in the
United States, some of these illnesses are not part of this outbreak.

### Final Epi Curve

This outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of
persons who became ill each day. This chart is called an epi curve. Please see
the Timeline for Reporting Cases of _Salmonella_ Infection for more details on
the reporting process.

#### Persons infected with the outbreak strain of _Salmonella_ Montevideo, by
week of illness onset*

![Final Epi Curve: Persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella
Montevideo, by week of illness
onset](/salmonella/2010/images/montevideo-5-4-10-epi.jpg)

*n=272 for whom information was available as of April 28, 2010. Some illness onset dates have been estimated from other reported information.

Page last reviewed: May 4, 2010

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Foodborne,
Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases (DFWED)

home _Salmonella_ Homepage

                    * Questions & Answersplus icon
                      * Additional Information
                    * Prevention
                    * Symptoms
                    * Diagnosis & Treatmentplus icon
                      * Diagnostic and Public Health Testing
                    * Current Outbreaksplus icon
                      * Reporting Timeline
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Pet Turtlesplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tortugas mascota pequeÃ±as
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Cut Fruitplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Ground Beefplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a la carne de res molida
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Turtlesplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a turtugas mascota
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pig Ear Dog Treatsplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Papayasplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a papayas frescas enteras importadas de MÃ©xico
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Karawan brand Tahiniplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tahini de la marca Karawan
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Backyard Poultryplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brotes de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculados a aves de corral domÃ©sticas
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Raw Tunaplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ Newport vinculado a atÃºn crudo congelado
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melonplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ Carrau vinculado a melÃ³n y sandÃ­a precortados
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Butterball Brand Ground Turkeyplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pavo molido de marca Butterball
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones de la investigaciÃ³n del brote, por fecha
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Hedgehogsplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a los erizos como mascota
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                    * Previous Outbreaksplus icon
                      * 2018 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Multidrug-Resistant _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Turkey Productsplus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella multirresistente vinculado a productos de pavo crudo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Tahini from Achdut Ltd., 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tahini elaborado por Achdut Ltd.
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Chicken Products, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Advice to Clinicians
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella multirresistente vinculado a productos de pollo crudo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Recomendaciones para los mÃ©dicos
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a carne molida de res
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Agbeni Infections, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Gravel Ridge Farms Shell Eggs, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pollo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pollo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Hy-Vee Spring Pasta Salad, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella vinculado a la ensalada de pasta âHy-Vee Spring Pasta Saladâ
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kelloggâs Honey Smacks Cereal, 2018plus icon
                          * Salmonella Infections Linked to Kelloggâs Honey Smacks Cereal en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melon, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melon en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Contact with Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Contact with Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                        * _Salmonella_ Braenderup Infections Linked to Shell Eggs, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Braenderup Infections Linked to Shell Eggs en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recalls and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Dried Coconut, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Dried Coconut en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Guinea Pigs, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Guinea Pigs en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Case Count Maps en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Signs & Symptoms en EspaÃ±ol
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken Salad, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken Salad en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kratom, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kratom en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recalls and Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Montevideo Infections Linked to Raw Sprouts, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Sprouts en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut en EspaÃ±ol
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut á» Viá»t Nam [PDF â 3 pages]
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2017 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Urbana Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Urbana Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Newport & Infantis Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Newport & Infantis Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Anatum Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Anatum Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Turtles, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2017 en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Laboratory Exposure, 2017plus icon
                          * Advice to Students & Employees in Microbiology Laboratories
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry in Backyard Flocksplus icon
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Live Poultry FAQ
                      * 2016 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Contact with Dairy Calves, 2016plus icon
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                        * _Salmonella_ Oranienburg Infections Linked to Shell Eggs, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Reading and _Salmonella_ Abony Infections linked to Alfalfa Sprouts, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps 
                          * Epi Curves 
                          * Signs & Symptoms 
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Live Poultry FAQs
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Montevideo and _Salmonella_ Senftenberg Infections Linked to Wonderful Pistachios, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts from One Contaminated Seed Lot, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Virchow Infections Linked to Raw Meal Organic Shake and Meal Products, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2015 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) Infections Linked to Sprouted Nut Butter Spreads, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2015plus icon
                          * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Advice to Pet Owners en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Signs & Symptoms 
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Poona Infections Linked to Imported Cucumbers, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Multidrug-Resistant _Salmonella_ I 4,[5],12:i:- and _Salmonella_ Infantis Infections Linked to Pork, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Enteritidis Infections Linked to Raw, Frozen, Stuffed Chicken Entrees Produced by Aspen Foods, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Drug-Resistant _Salmonella_ Enteritidis Infections Linked to Raw, Frozen, Stuffed Chicken Entrees Produced by Barber Foods, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Backyard Flock Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Raw Tuna, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Retailers & Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Crested Geckos, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2014 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Bean Sprouts, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Final Case Count Maps
                          * Final Epi Curve
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Braenderup Infections Linked to Nut Butter, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human Typhimurium Infections Linked to Laboratory Exposure, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Students & Employees in Labs
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chia Powder, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Frozen Feeder Rodents, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Bearded Dragons, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Tyson Brand Mechanically Separated Chicken, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Institutions
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Stanley Infections Linked to Raw Cashew Cheese, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2013 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Foster Farms Brand Chicken, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                          * Timeline of Events
                        * _Salmonella_ Mbandaka Infections Linked to Tahini Sesame Paste, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Saintpaul Infections Linked to Imported Cucumbers, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Chicken, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2012 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Bredeney Infections Linked to Peanut Butter, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Hedgehogs, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Braenderup Infections Associated with Mangoes, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Typhimurium and Newport Infections Linked to Cantaloupe, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Hadar Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Montevideo Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infantis Infections Linked to Dry Dog Food, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Information for Pet Owners
                          * Information for Veterinarians
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Bareilly and Nchanga Infections Associated with a Raw Scraped Ground Tuna Product, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                          * Timeline of Events
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Outbreaks Diagram
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resource
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Restaurant Chain A, 2012
                      * 2010 through 2011 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Ground Beef
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Kosher Broiled Chicken Livers
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Turkish Pine Nuts
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Ground Turkey
                        * Agona Infections Linked to Whole, Fresh Imported Papayas
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts and Spicy Sprouts
                        * Altona and Johannesburg Infections Linked to Chicks and Ducklings
                        * Typhimurium Infections Associated with Lab Exposure
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to African Dwarf Frogs
                        * Hadar Infections Associated with Turkey Burgers
                        * Panama Infections Linked to Cantaloupe
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * Enteritidis Infections Associated with Shell Eggs
                        * Chester Infections Associated with Cheesy Chicken & Rice Frozen EntrÃ©e
                        * Typhi (Typhoid Fever) Associated with Frozen Mamey Fruit Pulp
                        * Hartford and Baildon Infections Associated with Restaurant Chain A
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Linked to Frozen Rodents
                        * Newport Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * Montevideo Infections Linked to Red and Black Pepper/Italian-Style Meats
                      * 2006 through 2009 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Saintpaul Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pistachio Nuts
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Peanut Butter
                        * Saintpaul Infections Linked to Raw Produce
                        * Agona Infections Linked to Rice & Wheat Puff Cereal
                        * Litchfield Infections Linked to Cantaloupe
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Infections Linked to Pot Pies
                        * Human Schwarzengrund Infections Linked to Dry Pet Food
                        * Wandsworth Infections Linked to Veggie Booty
                        * Tennessee Infections Linked to Peanut Butter
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Tomatoes
                    * For Health Professionals
                    * Surveillanceplus icon
                      * _Salmonella_ Atlasplus icon
                        * 32 Individual Serotypes Reports
                        * Importance of Serotyping
                        * Snapshots of Serotypes
                    * Communication Materials
                    * Reports & Publicationsplus icon
                      * MMWR Articles
                      * References

Related Links

                    * Multistate Foodborne Outbreaks
                    * Zoonotic Diseases (Diseases from Animals)
                    * Foodborne Illness A-Z
                    * Estimates of Foodborne Illness
                    * Report a Foodborne Illness
                    * Foodsafety.govExternal file_external 
                    * U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External file_external 
                    * USDA Food Safety and Inspection ServiceExternal file_external 

Follow Salmonella

![Sign up for RSS feed.](/salmonella/images/outbreaks/rss-icon.png)

Sign up for RSS Feed

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

