Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003054.htm    
                                Description: Hoarseness refers to a difficulty making sounds when trying to speak. Vocal sounds may be weak, breathy, scratchy, or husky, and the pitch or quality of the voice may change.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hoarseness

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003054.htm

# Hoarseness

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hoarseness refers to a difficulty making sounds when trying to speak. Vocal
sounds may be weak, breathy, scratchy, or husky, and the pitch or quality of
the voice may change.

## Considerations

Hoarseness is most often caused by a problem with the vocal cords. The vocal
cords are part of your voice box (larynx) located in the throat. When the
vocal cords become inflamed or infected, they swell. This can cause
hoarseness.

The most common cause of hoarseness is a cold or sinus infection, which most
often goes away on its own within 2 weeks.

A rare but serious cause of hoarseness that does not go away in a few weeks is
cancer of the voice box.

## Causes

Hoarseness may be caused by:

      * Acid reflux (gastroesophageal reflux)
      * Allergies
      * Breathing in irritating substances
      * Cancer of the throat or larynx
      * Chronic coughing
      * Colds or upper respiratory infections
      * Heavy smoking or drinking, particularly together
      * Overuse or abuse of the voice (as in shouting or singing), which may cause swelling or growths on the vocal cords 

Less common causes include:

      * Injury or irritation from a breathing tube or bronchoscopy
      * Damage to the nerves and muscles around the voice box (from trauma or surgery)
      * Foreign object in the esophagus or trachea
      * Swallowing a harsh chemical liquid
      * Changes in the larynx during puberty
      * Thyroid or lung cancer
      * Underactive thyroid gland
      * Immobility of one or both vocal cords 

## Home Care

Hoarseness may be short-term (acute) or long-term (chronic). Rest and time may
improve hoarseness. Hoarseness that continues for weeks or months should be
checked by a health care provider.

Things you can do at home to help relieve the problem include:

      * Talk only when you need to until hoarseness goes away.
      * Drink plenty of fluids to help keep your airways moist. (Gargling does not help.)
      * Use a vaporizer to add moisture to the air you breathe.
      * Avoid actions that strain the vocal cords such as whispering, shouting, crying, and singing.
      * Take medicines to reduce stomach acid if hoarseness is due to gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD).
      * DO NOT use decongestants which can dry out the vocal cords.
      * If you smoke, cut down, or stop at least until hoarseness goes away. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You have trouble breathing or swallowing.
      * Hoarseness occurs with drooling, particularly in a small child.
      * Hoarseness occurs in a child less than 3 months old.
      * Hoarseness has lasted for more than 1 week in a child, or 2 to 3 weeks in an adult. 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will examine your throat, neck, and mouth and ask you some
questions about your symptoms and medical history. These may include:

      * To what extent have you lost your voice (all or partially)?
      * What kind of vocal problems are you having (making scratchy, breathy, or husky vocal sounds)?
      * When did hoarseness start?
      * Does hoarseness come and go or get worse over time?
      * Have you been shouting, singing, or overusing your voice, or crying a lot (if a child)?
      * Have you been exposed to harsh fumes or liquids?
      * Do you have allergies or a post nasal drip?
      * Have you ever had throat surgery?
      * Do you smoke or use alcohol?
      * Do you have other symptoms such as fever, cough, sore throat, difficulty swallowing, weight loss, or fatigue? 

You may have one or more of the following tests:

      * Laryngoscopy
      * Throat culture
      * Throat examination with a small mirror
      * X-rays of the neck or CT scan
      * Blood tests such as a complete blood count (CBC) or blood differential

## Alternative Names

Voice strain; Dysphonia; Loss of voice

## Images

      * ![Throat anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1118t.jpg)Throat anatomy

## References

Choi SS, Zalzal GH. Voice disorders. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al,
eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 203.

Flint PW. Throat disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 429.

Stachler RJ, Francis DO, Schwartz SR, et al. Clinical Practice Guideline:
Hoarseness (Dysphonia) (Update). _Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg_.
2018;158(1_suppl):S1-S42. PMID: 29494321 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29494321.

## Review Date 11/4/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Voice
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VoiceDisorder_thumb.jpg)Voice
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

