Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001643.htm    
                                Description: Laryngeal nerve damage is injury to one or both of the nerves that are attached to the voice box.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Laryngeal nerve damage

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001643.htm

# Laryngeal nerve damage

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Laryngeal nerve damage is injury to one or both of the nerves that are
attached to the voice box.

## Causes

Injury to the laryngeal nerves is uncommon.

When it does occur, it can be from:

      * A complication of neck or chest surgery (especially thyroid, lung, heart surgery, or cervical spine surgery)
      * A breathing tube in the windpipe (endotracheal tube)
      * A viral infection that affects the nerves
      * Tumors in the neck or upper chest, such as thyroid or lung cancer
      * Part of a neurological condition 

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Difficulty speaking
      * Difficulty swallowing
      * Hoarseness

Injury to the left and right laryngeal nerves at the same time can cause a
breathing problem. This can be an urgent medical problem.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will check to see how your vocal cords move. Abnormal
movement may mean that a laryngeal nerve is injured.

Tests may include:

      * Bronchoscopy
      * CT scan of the chest
      * Laryngoscopy
      * MRI of the brain, neck, and chest
      * X-ray

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause of the injury. In some cases, no treatment may
be needed and the nerve may recover on its own. Voice therapy is useful in
some cases.

If surgery is needed, the goal is to change the position of the paralyzed
vocal cord to improve the voice. This can be done with:

      * Arytenoid adduction (stitches to move the vocal cord toward the middle of the airway)
      * Injections of collagen, Gelfoam, or another substance
      * Thyroplasty 

If both the left and right nerves are damaged, a hole may need to be cut into
the windpipe (tracheotomy) right away to allow breathing. This is followed by
another surgery at a later date.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook depends on the cause of the injury. In some cases, the nerve
rapidly returns to normal. However, sometimes the damage is permanent.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

      * Difficulty breathing (call right away)
      * Unexplained hoarseness that lasts for more than 3 weeks 

## Alternative Names

Vocal cord paralysis

## Images

      * ![Nerves of the larynx](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19721t.jpg)Nerves of the larynx
      * ![Laryngeal nerve damage](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9502t.jpg)Laryngeal nerve damage

## References

Dexter EU. Perioperative care of the thoracic surgical patient. In: Sellke FW,
del Nido PJ, Swanson SJ, eds. _Sabiston and Spencer Surgery of the Chest_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 4.

Sandhu GS, Nouraei SAR. Laryngeal and esophageal trauma. In: Flint PW, Haughey
BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 67.

## Review Date 11/4/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Voice
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VoiceDisorder_thumb.jpg)Voice
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

