Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001255.htm    
                                Description: Retroperitoneal inflammation causes swelling that occurs in the retroperitoneal space. Over time, it can lead to a mass behind the abdomen called retroperitoneal fibrosis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Retroperitoneal inflammation

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001255.htm

# Retroperitoneal inflammation

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Retroperitoneal inflammation causes swelling that occurs in the
retroperitoneal space. Over time, it can lead to a mass behind the abdomen
called retroperitoneal fibrosis.

The retroperitoneal space is in front of the lower back and behind the
abdominal lining (peritoneum). Organs in this space include the:

      * Kidneys
      * Lymph nodes
      * Pancreas
      * Spleen
      * Ureters

## Causes

Retroperitoneal inflammation and fibrosis is a rare condition. There is no
clear cause in about 70% of cases.

Conditions that can rarely lead to this include:

      * Abdominal radiation therapy for cancer
      * Cancer: bladder, breast, colon, lymphoma, prostate, sarcoma
      * Crohn disease
      * Infections: tuberculosis, histoplasmosis
      * Certain medicines
      * Surgery of structures in the retroperitoneum

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Abdominal pain
      * Anorexia
      * Flank pain
      * Low back pain
      * Malaise 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider usually diagnoses the condition based on a CT scan
or ultrasound exam of your abdomen. A biopsy of tissues in your abdomen may be
needed.

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the underlying cause of retroperitoneal inflammation and
fibrosis.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you do with the condition depends on the underlying cause. It can
lead to kidney failure.

## Alternative Names

Retroperitonitis

## Images

      * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Mettler FA, Guiberteau MJ. Inflammation and infection imaging. In: Mettler FA,
Guiberteau MJ, eds. _Essentials of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 12.

McQuaid KR. Approach to the patient with gastrointestinal disease. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 132.

Turnage RH, Mizell J, Badgwell B. Abdominal wall, umbilicus, peritoneum,
mesenteries, omentum, and retroperitoneum. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD,
Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 43.

## Review Date 10/12/2018

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Peritoneal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeritonealDisorders_thumb.jpg)Peritoneal
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

