Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003626.htm    
                                Description: Peritoneal fluid analysis is a lab test. It is done to look at fluid that has built up in the space in the abdomen around the internal organs. This area is called the peritoneal space. The condition is    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Peritoneal fluid analysis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003626.htm

# Peritoneal fluid analysis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Peritoneal fluid analysis is a lab test. It is done to look at fluid that has
built up in the space in the abdomen around the internal organs. This area is
called the peritoneal space. The condition is called ascites.

The test is also known as paracentesis or abdominal tap.

## How the Test is Performed

The sample of fluid is removed from the peritoneal space using a needle and
syringe. Ultrasound is often used to direct the needle to the fluid.

Your health care provider will clean and numb a small area of your belly area
(abdomen). A needle is inserted through the skin of your abdomen and a fluid
sample is pulled out. The fluid is collected into a tube (syringe) attached to
the end of the needle.

The fluid is sent to a lab where it is examined. Tests will be done on the
fluid to measure:

      * Albumin
      * Protein
      * Red and white blood cell counts

Tests will also check for bacteria and other types of infection.

The following tests may also be done:

      * Alkaline phosphatase
      * Amylase
      * Cytology (appearance of cells)
      * Glucose
      * LDH

## How to Prepare for the Test

Let your provider know if you:

      * Are taking any medicines (including herbal remedies)
      * Have any allergies to medicines or numbing medicine
      * Have any bleeding problems
      * Are pregnant or planning to get pregnant

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel a stinging sensation from the numbing medicine, or pressure as
the needle is placed.

If a large amount of fluid is taken out, you may feel dizzy or lightheaded.
Tell the provider if you feel dizzy.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is done to:

      * Detect peritonitis.
      * Find the cause of fluid in the abdomen.
      * Remove large amounts of fluid from the peritoneal space in people who have liver disease. (This is done to make breathing comfortable.)
      * See whether an injury to the abdomen has caused internal bleeding.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may mean:

      * Bile-stained fluid may mean you have a gallbladder or liver problem.
      * Bloody fluid may be a sign of tumor or injury.
      * High white blood cell counts may be a sign of peritonitis.
      * Milk-colored peritoneal fluid may be a sign of carcinoma, cirrhosis of the liver, lymphoma, tuberculosis, or infection. 

Other abnormal test results may be due to a problem in the intestines or
organs of the abdomen. Large differences between the amount of albumin in the
peritoneal fluid and in your blood may point to heart, liver, or kidney
failure. Small differences may be a sign of cancer or infection.

## Risks

Risks may include:

      * Damage to the bowel, bladder, or a blood vessel in the abdomen from a needle puncture
      * Bleeding
      * Infection
      * Low blood pressure
      * Shock

## Alternative Names

Paracentesis; Abdominal tap

## Images

      * ![Diagnostic peritoneal lavage - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/15818t.jpg)Diagnostic peritoneal lavage - series
      * ![Peritoneal culture](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9737t.jpg)Peritoneal culture

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Paracentesis (peritoneal fluid analysis) -
diagnostic. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic
Procedures_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:849-851.

Garcia-Tsao G. Cirrhosis and its sequelae. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 153.

Miller JH, Moake M. Procedures. In: The Johns Hopkins Hospital; Hughes HK,
Kahl LK, eds. _The Harriet Lane Handbook_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 3.

Runyon BA. Ascites and spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 93.

## Review Date 1/1/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Peritoneal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeritonealDisorders_thumb.jpg)Peritoneal
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

