Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003727.htm    
                                Description: Peritoneal fluid culture is a laboratory test performed on a sample of peritoneal fluid. It is done to detect bacteria or fungi that cause infection (peritonitis).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Peritoneal fluid culture

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003727.htm

# Peritoneal fluid culture

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Peritoneal fluid culture is a laboratory test performed on a sample of
peritoneal fluid. It is done to detect bacteria or fungi that cause infection
(peritonitis).

Peritoneal fluid is the fluid from the peritoneal cavity, a space between the
wall of the abdomen and the organs inside.

## How the Test is Performed

A sample of peritoneal fluid is needed. This sample is obtained using a
procedure called an abdominal tap (paracentesis).

A sample of fluid is sent to the laboratory for Gram stain and culture. The
sample is checked to see if bacteria grows.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Empty your bladder before your abdominal tap procedure.

## How the Test will Feel

A small area in your lower abdomen will be cleaned with germ-killing medicine
(antiseptic). You will also receive local anesthesia. You will feel pressure
as the needle is inserted. If a large amount of fluid is withdrawn, you may
feel dizzy or lightheaded.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is done to find out if there is an infection in the peritoneal space.

## Normal Results

Peritoneal fluid is a sterile fluid, so normally no bacteria or fungi are
present.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

The growth of any microorganism, such as bacteria or fungi, from peritoneal
fluid is abnormal and indicates peritonitis.

## Risks

There is a small risk of the needle puncturing the bowel, bladder, or a blood
vessel in the abdomen. This may result in bowel perforation, bleeding, and
infection.

## Considerations

The peritoneal fluid culture may be negative, even if you have peritonitis.
The diagnosis of peritonitis is based on other factors, in addition to the
culture.Â

## Alternative Names

Culture - peritoneal fluid

## Images

      * ![Peritoneal culture](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9737t.jpg)Peritoneal culture

## References

Levison ME, Bush LM. Peritonitis and intraperitoneal abscesses. In: Bennett
JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 76.

Runyon BA. Ascites and spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 93.

## Review Date 10/27/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Peritoneal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeritonealDisorders_thumb.jpg)Peritoneal
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

