Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000286.htm    
                                Description: Ascites is the build-up of fluid in the space between the lining of the abdomen and abdominal organs.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ascites

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000286.htm

# Ascites

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ascites is the build-up of fluid in the space between the lining of the
abdomen and abdominal organs.

## Causes

Ascites results from high pressure in the blood vessels of the liver (portal
hypertension) and low levels of a protein called albumin.

Diseases that can cause severe liver damage can lead to ascites. These
include:

      * Chronic hepatitis C or B infectionÂ 
      * Alcohol abuse over many years
      * Fatty liver disease (non-alcoholic steatohepatitis or NASH)

People with certain cancers in the abdomen may develop ascites. These include
cancer of the appendix, colon, ovaries, uterus, pancreas, and liver.

Other conditions that can cause this problem include:

      * Clots in the veins of the liver (portal vein thrombosis)
      * Congestive heart failure
      * Pancreatitis 
      * Thickening and scarring of the sac-like covering of the heart (pericarditis)

Kidney dialysis may also be linked to ascites.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may develop slowly or suddenly depending on the cause of ascites. You
may have no symptoms if there is only a small amount of fluid in the belly.

As more fluid collects, you may have abdominal pain and bloating. Large
amounts of fluid can cause shortness of breath.

Many other symptoms of liver failure may also be present.

## Exams and Tests

Your doctor will do a physical exam to determine the amount of swelling in
your belly.

You may also have the following tests to assess your liver and kidneys:

      * 24-hour urine collection
      * Electrolyte levels
      * Kidney function tests
      * Liver function tests
      * Tests to measure the risk of bleeding and protein levels in the blood
      * Urinalysis
      * Abdominal ultrasound 

Your doctor may also use a thin needle to withdraw ascites fluid from your
belly. The fluid is tested to look for the cause of ascites and to check if
the fluid is infected.

## Treatment

The condition that causes ascites will be treated, if possible.

Treatments for fluid build-up may include lifestyle changes:

      * Avoiding alcohol
      * Lowering salt in your diet (no more than 1,500 mg/day of sodium)
      * Limiting fluid intake 

You may also get medicines from your doctor, including:

      * "Water pills" (diuretics) to get rid of extra fluid
      * Antibiotics for infections 

Other things you can do to help take care of your liver disease are:

      * Get vaccinated for diseases such as influenza, hepatitis A and hepatitis B, and pneumococcal pneumonia
      * Talk to your doctor about all medicines you take, including herbs and supplements and over-the-counter medicines

Procedures that you may have are:

      * Inserting a needle into the belly to remove large volumes of fluid (called a paracentesis)
      * Placing a special tube or shunt inside your liver (TIPS) to repair blood flow to the liver 

People with end-stage liver disease may need a liver transplant.

If you have cirrhosis, avoid taking nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medicines,
such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) and naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn).
Acetaminophen should be taken in reduced doses.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (a life-threatening infection of the ascitic fluid)
      * Hepatorenal syndrome (kidney failure)
      * Weight loss and protein malnutrition
      * Mental confusion, change in the level of alertness, or coma (hepatic encephalopathy)
      * Bleeding from the upper or lower gastrointestinal tract
      * Build-up of fluid in the space between your lungs and chest cavity (pleural effusion)
      * Other complications of liver cirrhosis 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you have ascites, call your health care provider right away if you have:

      * Fever above 100.5Â°F (38.05Â°C), or a fever that does not go away
      * Belly pain
      * Blood in your stool or black, tarry stools
      * Blood in your vomit
      * Bruising or bleeding that occurs easily
      * Build-up of fluid in your belly
      * Swollen legs or ankles
      * Breathing problems
      * Confusion or problems staying awake
      * Yellow color in your skin and the whites of your eyes (jaundice) 

## Alternative Names

Portal hypertension - ascites; Cirrhosis - ascites; Liver failure - ascites;
Alcohol use - ascites; End-stage liver disease - ascites; ESLD - ascites

## Images

      * ![Ascites with ovarian cancer - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1151t.jpg)Ascites with ovarian cancer - CT scan
      * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Garcia-Tsao G. Cirrhosis and its sequelae. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 153.

National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases website.
Cirrhosis. www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/liver-disease/cirrhosis/all-
content. Updated March 2018. Accessed August 19, 2018.

Runyon BA. Ascites and spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 93.

Zenlea T, George PF. Ascites. In: Ferri FF, ed. _Ferri's Clinical Advisor
2019_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018: 138-141.e2.

## Review Date 6/21/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cirrhosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cirrhosis2_thumb.jpg)Cirrhosis
_Read more_

![Liver Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LiverDisease_thumb.jpg)Liver
Diseases _Read more_

![Peritoneal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeritonealDisorders_thumb.jpg)Peritoneal
Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

