Link: https://medlineplus.gov/medlineplus-videos/cholesterol-good-and-bad/    
                                Description: Did you know that cholesterol can be âgoodâ and âbadâ? What does cholesterol do and how can it affect your health?    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

MedlinePlus Videos ->

Cholesterol Good and Bad

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/medlineplus-videos/cholesterol-good-
and-bad/

# Cholesterol Good and Bad

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Play Video

For closed captioning, click the CC button on the lower right-hand corner of
the player.

Video player keyboard shortcuts

## Video Outline

0:03 How the body uses cholesterol and how it can be good

0:22 How cholesterol can lead to plaques, atherosclerosis and cardiovascular
disease

0:52 Heart attack, coronary arteries

0:59 Stroke, carotid arteries, brain arteries

1:06 Peripheral artery disease

1:28 Bad cholesterol: LDL or low-density lipoprotein

1:41 Good cholesterol: HDL or high-density lipoprotein

2:13 Ways to prevent cholesterol related cardiovascular disease

2:43 National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI)

## Transcript

 **Good cholesterol, Bad cholesterol**

Cholesterol: It can be good. It can be bad.Â

Hereâs how cholesterol can be good.

Cholesterol is found in all of our cells. Cells need it to keep their
membranes just the right consistency.

Our body also makes things with cholesterol, like steroid hormones, vitamin D,
and bile.

Hereâs how cholesterol can be bad.

Cholesterol in the blood can stick to artery walls, forming plaque. This can
block blood flow. Atherosclerosis is the condition where plaque narrows the
space inside the artery.

Multiple factors can cause plaques to rupture, like inflammation. The bodyâs
natural healing response to damaged tissue can cause clots. If the clots plug
up arteries, blood cannot deliver vital oxygen.

If the coronary arteries that feed the heart are blocked, this could lead to a
heart attack.

If the blood vessels of the brain or the carotid arteries of the neck are
blocked, this could lead to a stroke.Â

If the arteries of the leg are blocked, this could lead to peripheral artery
disease. This causes painful leg cramps when walking, numbness and weakness,
or foot sores that do not heal.

So cholesterol can be good and bad. There are also different types of
cholesterol sometimes Â called âgood cholesterolâ and âbad
cholesterolâ.

LDL, or low-density lipoprotein, is sometimes called âbad cholesterolâ. It
carries cholesterol that can stick to arteries, collect in the vessel lining
forming plaque, and sometimes block blood flow.

HDL, or high-density lipoprotein, is sometimes called âgood cholesterolâ.
It takes cholesterol away from the blood and returns it to the liver.Â

When checked, you want your LDL to be low. L for low.

You want your HDL to be high. H for High.

A blood test can measure the LDL, HDL, and total cholesterol. Usually, there
are no visible symptoms of high cholesterol, so it is important to be
periodically checked.

Ways to decrease your LDL and increase your HDL include:

      * Eating a heart-healthy diet low in saturated and trans fats.Â 
      * Regular exercise and being more physically active.
      * Maintaining healthy weight.Â 
      * Quitting smoking.
      * Medications. Medications might be recommended depending on known risk factors for cardiovascular disease (such as age and family history among others).

You may already be familiar with these guidelines for heart-healthy living.
They are based on research supported by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood
Institute (NHLBI) at the National Institutes of Health, or NIH.Â

This video was produced by MedlinePlus, a trusted source of health information
from the US National Library of Medicine.Â

## Video Information

 **Published June 26, 2018**

View this video on the MedlinePlus playlist at the U.S. National Library of
Medicine YouTube channel at: https://youtu.be/kLnvChjGxYk

 **ANIMATION** : Jeff DayÂ

**NARRATION** : Jennifer Sun BellÂ

**MUSIC:** Flowing Stream instrumental by Eric Chevalier, via Killer Tracks

## Related Health Topics

      * Cholesterol
      * Cholesterol Levels: What You Need to Know
      * HDL: The "Good" Cholesterol
      * LDL: The "Bad" Cholesterol

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 1 April 2019

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

