Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000787.htm    
                                Description: Bile acid sequestrants are medicines that help lower your LDL (bad) cholesterol. Too much cholesterol in your blood can stick to the walls of your arteries and narrow or block them.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bile acid sequestrants for cholesterol

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000787.htm

# Bile acid sequestrants for cholesterol

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bile acid sequestrants are medicines that help lower your LDL (bad)
cholesterol. Too much cholesterol in your blood can stick to the walls of your
arteries and narrow or block them.

These medicines work by blocking bile acid in your stomach from being absorbed
in your blood. Your liver then needs the cholesterol from your blood to make
more bile acid. This reduces your cholesterol level.

This medicine also may help people with type 2 diabetes manage their blood
sugar.

## How Bile Acid Sequestrants Help

Improving your cholesterol levels can help protect you from:

      * Heart disease
      * Heart attack
      * Stroke 

Your health care provider will work with you to lower your cholesterol by
improving your diet. If this is not successful, medicines to lower the
cholesterol may be the next step.

Statins are thought to be the best drugs to use for people who need medicines
to lower their cholesterol.

Some people may be prescribed these medicines in combination with other drugs.
They may also need to take them if other medicines are not tolerated due to
allergies or side effects.

Both adults and teenagers can use this medicine when needed.

## How to Take Bile Acid Sequestrants

Take your medication as directed. You may take this medicine 1 to 2 times per
day or more often in smaller doses. DO NOT stop taking your medicine without
first talking with your provider.

This medicine comes in pill or powder form.

      * You will need to mix powder forms with water or other fluids.
      * The powder may also be mixed with soups or blended fruit.
      * Pill forms should be taken with plenty of water.
      * DO NOT chew or crush the pill. 

You should take this medicine with food, unless otherwise directed.

Store all of your medicines in a cool, dry place. Keep them where children
cannot get to them.

You should follow a healthy diet while taking bile acid sequestrants. This
includes eating less fat in your diet. Other ways you can help your heart
include:

      * Getting regular exercise
      * Managing stress
      * Quitting smoking 

## Know Your Risks

Before you start taking bile acid sequestrants, tell your provider if you:

      * Have bleeding problems or stomach ulcers
      * Are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding
      * Have allergies
      * Are taking other medicines
      * Plan to have surgery or dental work 

If you have certain conditions, you may need to avoid this medication. These
include:

      * Liver or gallbladder problems
      * High triglycerides
      * Heart, kidney, or thyroid conditions 

Tell your provider about all of your medicines, supplements, vitamins, and
herbs. Certain medicines may interact with bile acid sequestrants. Be sure to
tell your provider before taking any new medicines.

Taking this medicine may also affect how vitamins and other medications are
absorbed in the body. Ask your provider if you should take a multivitamin
supplement.

Regular blood tests will tell you and your provider how well the medicine is
working.

## Side Effects

Constipation is the most common side effect. Other possible side effects may
include:

      * Heartburn
      * Gas and bloating
      * Diarrhea
      * Nausea
      * Muscles aches and pains

## When to Call the Doctor

You should call your provider if you have:

      * Vomiting
      * Sudden weight loss
      * Bloody stools or bleeding from the rectum
      * Bleeding gums
      * Severe constipation

## Alternative Names

Antilipemic agent; Bile acid resins; Colestipol (ColestidÂ®); Cholestyramine
(LocholestÂ®, PrevaliteÂ®, and QuestranÂ®); Colesevelam (WelcholÂ®)

## References

Davidson DJ, Wilkinson MJ, Davidson MH. Combination therapy for dyslipedimia.
In: Ballantyne CM, ed. _Clinical Lipidology: A Companion to Braunwald's Heart
Disease_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 27.

Genest J, Libby P. Lipoprotein disorders and cardiovascular disease. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2019:chap 48.

Goldberg AC. Bile acid sequestrants. In: Ballantyne CM, ed. _Clinical
Lipidology: A Companion to Braunwald's Heart Disease_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 22.

Stone NJ, Robinson JG, Lichtenstein AH, et al. 2013 ACC/AHA guideline on the
treatment of blood cholesterol to reduce atherosclerotic cardiovascular risk
in adults: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart
Association Task Force on practice guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2014;63(25
Pt B):2889-2934. PMID: 24239923 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24239923.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cholesterol
      * Cholesterol Medicines
      * LDL: The "Bad" Cholesterol

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

