Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000392.htm    
                                Description: Familial hypercholesterolemia is a disorder that is passed down through families. It causes LDL (bad) cholesterol level to be very high. The condition begins at birth and can cause heart attacks at an    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Familial hypercholesterolemia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000392.htm

# Familial hypercholesterolemia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Familial hypercholesterolemia is a disorder that is passed down through
families. It causes LDL (bad) cholesterol level to be very high. The condition
begins at birth and can cause heart attacks at an early age.

Related topics include:

      * Familial combined hyperlipidemia
      * Familial hypertriglyceridemia
      * Familial dysbetalipoproteinemia

## Causes

Familial hypercholesterolemia is a genetic disorder. It is caused by a defect
on chromosome 19.

The defect makes the body unable to remove low density lipoprotein (LDL, or
bad) cholesterol from the blood. This results in a high level of LDL in the
blood. This makes you more likely to have narrowing of the arteries from
atherosclerosis at an early age. The condition is typically passed down
through families in an autosomal dominant manner. That means you only need to
get the abnormal gene from one parent in order to inherit the disease.

![Coronary artery
blockage](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/9377.jpg)

In rare cases, a child may inherit the gene from both parents. When this
occurs, the increase in cholesterol level is much more severe. The risk for
heart attacks and heart disease are high, even in childhood.

## Symptoms

In the early years there may be no symptoms.

Symptoms that may occur include:

      * Fatty skin deposits called xanthomas over parts of the hands, elbows, knees, ankles and around the cornea of the eye
      * Cholesterol deposits in the eyelids (xanthelasmas)
      * Chest pain (angina) or other signs of coronary artery disease may be present at a young age
      * Cramping of one or both calves when walking
      * Sores on the toes that do not heal
      * Sudden stroke-like symptoms such as trouble speaking, drooping on one side of the face, weakness of an arm or leg, and loss of balance 
![Xanthoma on the knee](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/2490.jpg)

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam may show fatty skin growths called xanthomas and cholesterol
deposits in the eye (corneal arcus).

TheÂ health care providerÂ will ask questions about your personal and family
medical history. There may be:

      * A strong family history of familial hypercholesterolemia or early heart attacks
      * High level of LDL cholesterol in either or both parents 

People from families with a strong history of early heart attacks should have
blood tests done to determine lipid levels.

Blood tests may show:

      * High level of total cholesterol
      * High LDL level
      * Normal triglyceride levels 

Other tests that may be done include:

      * Studies of cells called fibroblasts to see how the body absorbs LDL cholesterol
      * Genetic test for the defect associated with this condition 

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to reduce the risk of atherosclerotic heart disease.
People who get only one copy of the defective gene from their parents may do
well with diet changes and statin drugs.

LIFESTYLE CHANGES

The first step is to change what you eat. Most of the time,Â theÂ provider
will recommend that you try this for several months before prescribing
medicines. Diet changes include lowering the amount of fat you eat so that it
is less than 30% of your total calories. If you are overweight, losing weight
is very helpful.

Here are some ways to cut saturated fat out of your diet:

      * Eat less beef, chicken, pork, and lamb
      * Replace full-fat dairy productsÂ with low-fat products
      * Eliminate trans fats 

You can lower the amount of cholesterol you eat by eliminating egg yolks and
organ meats such as liver.

It may help to talk to a dietitian who can give you advice about changing your
eating habits. Weight loss and regular exercise may also help lower your
cholesterol level.

MEDICINES

If lifestyle changes do not change your cholesterol level, yourÂ provider may
recommend that you take medicines. There are several types of drugs available
to help lower blood cholesterol level, and they work in different ways. Some
are better at lowering LDL cholesterol, some are good at lowering
triglycerides, while others help raise HDL cholesterol. Many people will be on
several medicines.

Statin drugs are commonly used and are very effective. These drugs help lower
your risk of heart attack and stroke.

They include:

      * Lovastatin (Mevacor)
      * Pravastatin (Pravachol)
      * Simvastatin (Zocor)
      * Fluvastatin (Lescol)
      * Atorvastatin (Lipitor)
      * Pitivastatin (Livalo)
      * Rosuvastatin (Crestor)

Other cholesterol-lowering medicines include:

      * Bile acid-sequestering resins.
      * Ezetimibe.
      * Fibrates (such as gemfibrozil or fenofibrate).
      * Nicotinic acid. 
      * PCSK9 inhibitors, such as alirocumab (Praluent) and evolocumab (Repatha).Â These represent a newer class of drugs to treat high cholesterol. 

People with a severe form of the disorder may need a treatment called
apheresis. Blood or plasma is removed from the body. Special filters remove
the extra LDL cholesterol, and the blood plasma is then returned to the body.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you do depends on how closely you follow your provider's treatment
advice. Making diet changes, exercising, and taking your medicines correctly
can lower cholesterol level. These changes can help delay a heart attack,
especially for people with a milder form of the disorder.

Men and women with familial hypercholesterolemia typically are at increased
risk of early heart attacks.

RiskÂ of death varies among people with familial hypercholesterolemia. If you
inherit two copies of the defective gene, youÂ have a poorer outcome. That
type of familial hypercholesterolemia does not respond wellÂ to treatment and
may cause an early heart attack.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Heart attack at an early age
      * Heart disease
      * Stroke
      * Peripheral vascular diseaseÂ 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Seek medical care right away if you have chest pain or other warning signs of
a heart attack.

Call your provider if you have a personal or family history of high
cholesterol level.

## Prevention

A diet low in cholesterol and saturated fat and rich in unsaturated fat may
help to control your LDL level.

People with a family history of this condition, particularly if both parents
carry the defective gene, may want to seek genetic counseling.

## Alternative Names

Type II hyperlipoproteinemia; Hypercholesterolemic xanthomatosis; Low density
lipoprotein receptor mutation

## Patient Instructions

      * Cholesterol - what to ask your doctor 

## Images

      * ![Xanthoma - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1985t.jpg)Xanthoma - close-up
      * ![Xanthoma on the knee](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2490t.jpg)Xanthoma on the knee
      * ![Coronary artery blockage](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9377t.jpg)Coronary artery blockage

## References

Genest J, Libby P. Lipoprotein disorders and cardiovascular disease. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 48.

Semenkovich, CF. Disorders of lipid metabolism. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 206.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cholesterol](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cholesterol2_thumb.jpg)Cholesterol
_Read more_

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HighCholesterolinChildrenandTeens_thumb.jpg)High
Cholesterol in Children and Teens _Read more_

![LDL: The "Bad"
Cholesterol](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LDL_thumb.jpg)LDL: The "Bad"
Cholesterol _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

