Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000386.htm    
                                Description: Cholesterol is a soft, wax-like substance found in all parts of the body. Your body needs a little bit of cholesterol to work properly. But too much cholesterol can clog your arteries and lead to heart    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cholesterol testing and results

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000386.htm

# Cholesterol testing and results

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cholesterol is a soft, wax-like substance found in all parts of the body. Your
body needs a little bit of cholesterol to work properly. But too much
cholesterol can clog your arteries and lead to heart disease.

![Cholesterol](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19190.jpg)

Cholesterol blood tests are done to help you and your health care provider
better understand your risk for heart disease, stroke, and other problems
caused by narrowed or blocked arteries.

The ideal values for all cholesterol results depend on whether you have heart
disease, diabetes, or other risk factors. Your provider can tell you what your
goal should be.

## Cholesterol Tests

Some cholesterol is considered good and some is considered bad. Different
blood tests can be done to measure each type of cholesterol.

Your provider may order only a total cholesterol level as the first test. It
measures all types of cholesterol in your blood.

You may also have a lipid (or coronary risk) profile, which includes:

      * Total cholesterol
      * Low density lipoprotein (LDL cholesterol)
      * High density lipoprotein (HDL cholesterol)
      * Triglycerides (another type of fat in your blood)
      * Very low density lipoprotein (VLDL cholesterol) 

Lipoproteins are made of fat and protein. They carry cholesterol,
triglycerides, and other fats, called lipids, in the blood to various parts of
the body.

## When Should You Be Tested?

Everyone should have their first screening test by age 35 for men, and age 45
for women. Some guidelines recommend starting at age 20.

You should have a cholesterol test done at an earlier age if you have:

      * Diabetes
      * Heart disease
      * Stroke
      * High blood pressure
      * A strong family history of heart disease 

Follow-up testing should be done:

      * Every 5 years if your results were normal.
      * More often for people with diabetes, high blood pressure, heart disease, stroke, or blood flow problems to the legs or feet.
      * Every year or so if you are taking medicines to control high cholesterol. 

## Total Cholesterol

A total cholesterol of 180 to 200 mg/dL (10 to 11.1 mmol/l) or less is
considered best.

You may not need more cholesterol tests if your cholesterol is in this normal
range.

## LDL (Bad) Cholesterol

LDL cholesterol is sometimes called "bad" cholesterol. LDL can clog your
arteries.

You want your LDL to be low. Too much LDL is linked to heart disease and
stroke.

Your LDL is most often considered to be too high if it is 190 mg/dL or higher.

Levels between 70 and 189 mg/dL (3.9 and 10.5 mmol/l) are most often
considered too high if:

      * You have diabetes and are between ages 40 and 75
      * You have diabetes and a high risk of heart disease
      * You have a medium or high risk of heart disease
      * You have heart disease, history of a stroke, or poor circulation to your legs 

Health care providers have traditionally set a target level for your LDL
cholesterol if you are being treated with medicines to lower your cholesterol.

      * Some newer guidelines now suggest that providers no longer need to target a specific number for your LDL cholesterol. Higher strength medicines are used for the highest risk patients.
      * However, some guidelines still recommend using specific targets. 

## HDL (Good) Cholesterol

You want your HDL cholesterol to be high. Studies of both men and women have
shown that the higher your HDL, the lower your risk of coronary artery
disease. This is why HDL is sometimes referred to as "good" cholesterol.

HDL cholesterol levels greater than 40 to 60 mg/dL (2.2 to 3.3 mmol/l) are
desired.

## VLDL (Bad) Cholesterol

VLDL contains the highest amount of triglycerides. VLDL is considered a type
of bad cholesterol, because it helps cholesterol build up on the walls of
arteries.

Normal VLDL levels are from 2 to 30 mg/dL (0.1 to 1.7 mmol/l).

## Considerations

Sometimes, your cholesterol levels may be low enough that your provider will
not ask you to change your diet or take any medicines.

## Alternative Names

Cholesterol test results; LDL test results; VLDL test results; HDL test
results; Coronary risk profile results; Hyperlipidemia-results; Lipid disorder
test results; Heart disease - cholesterol results

## Images

      * ![Cholesterol](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19190t.jpg)Cholesterol

## References

American Diabetes Association. 10. Cardiovascular disease and risk management:
standards of medical care in diabetes-2020. _Diabetes Care_. 2020;43(Suppl
1):S111-S134. PMID: 31862753 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31862753.

Fox CS, Golden SH, Anderson C, et al. Update on prevention of cardiovascular
disease in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus in light of recent evidence: A
Scientific Statement From the American Heart Association and the American
Diabetes Association. _Circulation_. 2015;132(8):691-718. PMID: 26246173
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26246173.

Gennest J, Libby P. Lipoprotein disorders and cardiovascular disease. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 48.

Grundy SM, Stone NJ, Bailey AL, et al. 2018
AHA/ACC/AACVPR/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/ADA/AGS/APhA/ASPC/NLA/PCNA Guideline on the
management of blood cholesterol: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice
Guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2019;73(24):e285-e350.2018. PMID: 30423393
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30423393.

Rohatgi A. Lipid measurement. In: de Lemos JA, Omland T, eds. _Chronic
Coronary Artery Disease: A Companion to Braunwald's Heart Disease_.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 8.

## Review Date 1/27/2020

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cholesterol
      * Cholesterol Levels: What You Need to Know
      * HDL: The "Good" Cholesterol
      * LDL: The "Bad" Cholesterol

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

