Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001927.htm    
                                Description: Getting medical help right away for someone who is having a medical emergency can save their life. This article describes the warning signs of a medical emergency and how to be prepared.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Recognizing medical emergencies

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001927.htm

# Recognizing medical emergencies

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Getting medical help right away for someone who is having a medical emergency
can save their life. This article describes the warning signs of a medical
emergency and how to be prepared.

## Information

According to the American College of Emergency Physicians, the following are
warning signs of a medical emergency:

      * Bleeding that will not stop
      * Breathing problems (difficulty breathing, shortness of breath)
      * Change in mental status (such as unusual behavior, confusion, difficulty arousing)
      * Chest pain
      * Choking
      * Coughing up or vomiting blood
      * Fainting or loss of consciousness
      * Feeling of committing suicide or murder
      * Head or spine injury
      * Severe or persistent vomiting 
      * Sudden injury due to a motor vehicle accident, burns or smoke inhalation, near drowning, deep or large wound, or other injuries
      * Sudden, severe pain anywhere in the body
      * Sudden dizziness, weakness, or change in vision
      * Swallowing a poisonous substance
      * SevereÂ abdominal pain or pressure 

BE PREPARED:

      * Determine the location and quickest route to the nearest emergency department before an emergency happens.
      * Keep emergency phone numbers posted in your home where you can easily access them. Also enter the numbers into your cell phone. Everyone in your household, including children, should know when and how to call these numbers. **These numbers include:** fire department, police department, poison control center, ambulance center, your doctors' phone numbers, contact numbers of neighbors or nearby friends or relatives, and work phone numbers.
      * Know at which hospital(s) your doctor practices and, if practical, go there in an emergency.
      * Wear a medical identification tag if you have a chronic condition or look for one on a person who has any of the symptoms mentioned.
      * Get a personal emergency response system if you're an older adult, especially if you live alone. 

WHAT TO DO IF SOMEONE NEEDS HELP:

      * Stay calm, and call your local emergency number (such as 911).
      * Start CPR (cardiopulmonary resuscitation) or rescue breathing, if necessary and if you know the proper technique.
      * Place a semiconscious or unconscious person in the recovery position until the ambulance arrives. DO NOT move the person, however, if there has been or may have been a neck injury. 

Upon arriving at an emergency room, the person will be evaluated right away.
Life- or limb-threatening conditions will be treated first.Â People with
conditions that are not life- or limb-threatening may have to wait.

CALL YOUR LOCAL EMERGENCY NUMBER (SUCH AS 911) IF:

      * The person's condition is life threatening (for example, the person is having a heart attack or severe allergic reaction)
      * The person's condition could become life threatening on the way to the hospital
      * Moving the person could cause further injury (for example, in case of a neck injury or motor vehicle accident)
      * The person needs the skills or equipment of paramedics
      * Traffic conditions or distance might cause a delay in getting the person to the hospital 

## Alternative Names

Medical emergencies - how to recognize them

## Images

      * ![Stopping bleeding with direct pressure](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1067t.jpg)Stopping bleeding with direct pressure
      * ![Stopping bleeding with a tourniquet](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1068t.jpg)Stopping bleeding with a tourniquet
      * ![Stopping bleeding with pressure and ice](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18163t.jpg)Stopping bleeding with pressure and ice
      * ![Neck pulse](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9800t.jpg)Neck pulse

## References

American College of Emergency Physicians website. Is it an emergency?
www.emergencycareforyou.org/Emergency-101/Is-it-an-
Emergency#sm.000148ctb7hzjdgerj01cg5sadhih. Accessed February 14, 2019.

Blackwell TH. Emergency medical services: overview and ground transport. In:
Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine:
Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
190.

## Review Date 1/12/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Emergency Medical
Services](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EmergencyMedicalServices_thumb.jpg)Emergency
Medical Services _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

