Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000593.htm    
                                Description: Whenever an illness or injury occurs, you need to decide how serious it is and how soon to get medical care. This will help you choose whether it is best to:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

When to use the emergency room - adult

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000593.htm

# When to use the emergency room - adult

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Whenever an illness or injury occurs, you need to decide how serious it is and
how soon to get medical care. This will help you choose whether it is best to:

      * Call your health care provider
      * Go to an urgent care clinic
      * Go to an emergency department right away

It pays to think about the right place to go. Treatment in an emergency
department can cost 2 to 3 times more than the same care in your provider's
office. Think about this and the other issues listed below when deciding.

## Signs of an Emergency

How quickly do you need care? If a person or unborn baby could die or be
permanently disabled, it is an emergency.

Call 911 to have the emergency team come to you right away if you cannot wait,
such as for:

      * Choking
      * Stopped breathing
      * Head injury with passing out, fainting, or confusion
      * Injury to neck or spine, particularly if there is loss of feeling or inability to move
      * Electric shock or lightning strike
      * Severe burn
      * Severe chest pain or pressure
      * Seizure that lasted 3 to 5 minutes

Go to an emergency department or call 911 for help for problems such as:

      * Trouble breathing
      * Passing out, fainting
      * Pain in the arm or jaw
      * Unusual or bad headache, particularly if it started suddenly
      * Suddenly not able to speak, see, walk, or move
      * Suddenly weak or drooping on one side of the body
      * Dizziness or weakness that does not go away
      * Inhaled smoke or poisonous fumes
      * Sudden confusion
      * Heavy bleeding
      * Possible broken bone, loss of movement,Â particularly if the bone is pushing through the skin
      * Deep wound
      * Serious burn
      * Coughing or throwing up blood
      * Severe pain anywhere on the body
      * Severe allergic reaction with trouble breathing, swelling, hives
      * High fever with headache and stiff neck
      * High fever that does not get better with medicine
      * Throwing up or loose stools that does not stop
      * Poisoning or overdose of drug or alcohol
      * Suicidal thoughts
      * Seizures

## When to go to an Urgent Care Clinic

When you have a problem, do not wait too long to get medical care. If your
problem is not life threatening or risking disability, but you are concerned
and you cannot see your provider soon enough, go to an urgent care clinic.

The kinds of problems an urgent care clinic can deal with include:

      * Common illnesses, such as colds, the flu, earaches, sore throats, migraines, low-grade fevers, and limited rashes
      * Minor injuries, such as sprains, back pain, minor cuts and burns, minor broken bones, or minor eye injuries

## If you are not Sure, Talk to Someone

If you are not sure what to do, and you don't have one of the serious
conditions listed above, call your provider. If the office is not open, your
phone call may be forwarded to someone. Describe your symptoms to the provider
who answers your call, and find out what you should do.

Your provider or health insurance company may also offer a nurse telephone
advice hotline. Call this number and tell the nurse your symptoms for advice
on what to do.

## Prepare now

Before you have a medical problem, learn what your choices are. Check the
website of your health insurance company. Put these telephone numbers in the
memory of your phone:

      * Your provider
      * The closest emergency department
      * Nurse telephone advice line
      * Urgent care clinic
      * Walk-in clinic

## References

American College of Emergency Physicians website. Emergency care, urgent care
- what's the difference?
www.acep.org/globalassets/sites/acep/media/advocacy/value-of-em/urgent-
emergent-care.pdf. Updated April 2007. Accessed September 6, 2018.

Findlay S. When you should go to an urgent care or walk-in health clinic:
knowing your options in advance can help you get the right care and save
money. www.consumerreports.org/health-clinics/urgent-care-or-walk-in-health-
clinic. Updated May 4, 2018. Accessed September 6, 2018.

## Review Date 8/4/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 05-29-19:
Editorial update.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Emergency Medical Services

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

