Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002951.htm    
                                Description: Carotid artery surgery is a procedure to treat carotid artery disease.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Carotid artery surgery

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002951.htm

# Carotid artery surgery

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Carotid artery surgery is a procedure to treat carotid artery disease.

The carotid artery brings needed blood to your brain and face. You have one of
these arteries on each side of your neck. Blood flow in this artery can become
partly or totally blocked by fatty material called plaque. This can reduce the
blood supply to your brain and cause a stroke.

Carotid artery surgery is done to restore proper blood flow to the brain.
There are two procedures to treat a carotid artery that has plaque buildup in
it. This article focuses on a surgery called endarterectomy. The other method
is called angioplasty with stent placement.

## Description

During carotid endarterectomy:

      * You receive general anesthesia. You are asleep and pain free. Some hospitals use local anesthesia instead. Only the part of your body being worked on is numbed with medicine so that you do not feel pain. You are also given a medicine to help you relax.
      * You lie on your back on an operating table with your head turned to one side. The side your blocked carotid artery is on faces up.
      * The surgeon makes a cut (incision) on your neck over your carotid artery. A flexible tube (catheter) is put in the artery. Blood flows through the catheter around the blocked area during surgery.
      * Your carotid artery is opened. The surgeon removes the plaque inside the artery.
      * After the plaque is removed, the artery is closed with stitches. Blood now flows through the artery to your brain.
      * Your heart activity will be monitored closely during surgery. 

The surgery takes about 2 hours. After the procedure, your doctor may do a
test to confirm that the artery has been opened.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

This procedure is done if your doctor has found narrowing or a blockage in
your carotid artery. Your health care provider will have done one or more
tests to see how much the carotid artery is blocked.

Surgery to remove the buildup in your carotid artery may be done if the artery
is narrowed by more than 70%.

If you have had a stroke or temporary brain injury, your provider will
consider whether treating your blocked artery with surgery is safe for you.

Other treatment options your provider will discuss with you are:

      * No treatment, other than tests to check your carotid artery every year.
      * Medicine and diet to lower your cholesterol.
      * Blood-thinning medicines to lower your risk for stroke. Some of these medicines are aspirin, clopidogrel (Plavix), dabigatran (Pradaxa), and warfarin (Coumadin). 

Carotid angioplasty and stenting is likely to be used when carotid
endarterectomy would not be safe.

## Risks

Risks of anesthesia are:

      * Allergic reactions to medicines
      * Breathing problems

Risks of carotid surgery are:

      * Blood clots or bleeding in the brain
      * Brain damage
      * Heart attack
      * More blockage of the carotid artery over time
      * Seizures
      * Stroke
      * Swelling near your airway (the tube you breathe through)
      * Infection 

## Before the Procedure

Your provider will do a thorough physical exam and order several medical
tests.

Tell your provider what medicines you are taking, even medicines, supplements,
or herbs you bought without a prescription.

During the 2 weeks before your surgery:

      * A few days before the surgery, you may need to stop taking blood-thinning drugs. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), clopidogrel (Plavix), naprosyn (Aleve, Naproxen), and other drugs like these.
      * Ask your provider which medicines you should still take on the day of your surgery.
      * If you smoke, you need to stop. Ask your provider for help quitting.
      * Tell your provider about any cold, flu, fever, herpes breakout, or other illness you may have before your surgery. 

Follow instructions on when to stop eating and drinking before surgery.

On the day of your surgery:

      * Take any medicines your provider prescribed with a small sip of water.
      * Follow instructions on when to arrive at the hospital. Be sure to arrive on time.

## After the Procedure

You may have a drain in your neck that goes into your incision. It will drain
fluid that builds up in the area. It will be removed within a day.

After surgery, your provider may want you to stay in the hospital overnight so
that nurses can watch you for any signs of bleeding, stroke, or poor blood
flow to your brain. You may be able to go home the same day if your operation
is done early in the day and you are doing well.

Follow instructions on how to take care of yourself at home.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Carotid artery surgery may help lower your chance of having a stroke. But you
will need to make lifestyle changes to help prevent plaque buildup, blood
clots, and other problems in your carotid arteries over time. You may need to
change your diet and start an exercise program, if your provider tells you
exercise is safe for you. It is also important to stop smoking.

## Alternative Names

Carotid endarterectomy; CAS surgery; Carotid artery stenosis - surgery;
Endarterectomy - carotid artery

## Patient Instructions

      * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery - discharge 
      * Antiplatelet drugs - P2Y12 inhibitors
      * Aspirin and heart disease
      * Butter, margarine, and cooking oils
      * Carotid artery surgery - discharge
      * Cholesterol and lifestyle
      * Cholesterol - drug treatment
      * Controlling your high blood pressure
      * Dietary fats explained
      * Fast food tips
      * How to read food labels
      * Mediterranean diet
      * Stroke - discharge 
      * Surgical wound care - open

## Images

      * ![Carotid stenosis - X-ray of the left artery](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1152t.jpg)Carotid stenosis - X-ray of the left artery
      * ![Carotid stenosis - X-ray of the right artery](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1153t.jpg)Carotid stenosis - X-ray of the right artery
      * ![Blockage in internal carotid artery](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18004t.jpg)Arterial tear in internal carotid artery
      * ![Atherosclerosis of internal carotid artery](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18006t.jpg)Atherosclerosis of internal carotid artery
      * ![Arterial plaque build-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18024t.jpg)Arterial plaque build-up
      * ![Carotid artery surgery - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/13939t.jpg)Carotid artery surgery - series

## References

Arnold M, Perler BA. Carotid endarterectomy. In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds.
_Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 91.

Biller J, Ruland S, Schneck MJ. Ischemic cerebrovascular disease. In Daroff
RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 65.

Brott TG, Halperin JL, Abbara S, et al. 2011
ASA/ACCF/AHA/AANN/AANS/ACR/ASNR/CNS/SAIP/SCAI/SIR/SNIS/SVM/SVS guideline on
the management of patients with extracranial carotid and vertebral artery
disease: executive summary: a report of the American College of Cardiology
Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines, and
the American Stroke Association, American Association of Neuroscience Nurses,
American Association of Neurological Surgeons, American College of Radiology,
American Society of Neuroradiology, Congress of Neurological Surgeons, Society
of Atherosclerosis Imaging and Prevention, Society for Cardiovascular
Angiography and Interventions, Society of Interventional Radiology, Society of
NeuroInterventional Surgery, Society for Vascular Medicine, and Society for
Vascular Surgery. Developed in collaboration with the American Academy of
Neurology and Society of Cardiovascular Computed Tomography. _Catheter
Cardiovasc Interv_. 2013;81(1):E76-E123. PMID: 23281092
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23281092.

Brott TG, Howard G, Roubin GS, et al. Long-term results of stenting versus
endarterectomy for carotid-artery stenosis. _N Engl J Med_.
2016;374(11):1021-1031. PMID: 26890472 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26890472.

Perler BA. Carotid endarterectomy. In: Cameron JL, Cameron AM, eds. _Current
Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:937-941.

## Review Date 6/10/2018

Updated by: Deepak Sudheendra, MD, FSIR, RPVI, Assistant Professor of
Interventional Radiology & Surgery at the University of Pennsylvania Perelman
School of Medicine, with an expertise in Vascular Interventional Radiology &
Surgical Critical Care, Philadelphia, PA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Internal review and update on 04/15/2019 by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Carotid Artery
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CarotidArteryDisease_thumb.jpg)Carotid
Artery Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

