Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007427.htm    
                                Description: Carotid artery disease occurs when the carotid arteries become narrowed or blocked.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Carotid artery disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007427.htm

# Carotid artery disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Carotid artery disease occurs when the carotid arteries become narrowed or
blocked.

The carotid arteries provide part of the main blood supply to your brain. They
are located on each side of your neck. You can feel their pulse under your
jawline.

## Causes

Carotid artery disease occurs when fatty material called plaque builds up
inside the arteries. This buildup of plaque is called hardening of the
arteries (atherosclerosis).

The plaque may slowly block or narrow the carotid artery. Or it may cause a
clot to form suddenly. A clot that completely blocks the artery can lead to
stroke.

Risk factors for blockage or narrowing of the arteries include:

      * Smoking (people who smoke one pack a day double their risk for stroke)
      * Diabetes
      * High blood pressure
      * High cholesterol and triglyceridesÂ 
      * Older age
      * Family history of stroke
      * Alcohol use
      * Recreational drug use
      * Trauma to neck area, which may cause a tear in the carotid artery 

## Symptoms

At early stages, you may not have any symptoms. After plaque builds up, the
first symptoms of carotid artery disease may be a stroke or a transient
ischemic attack (TIA). A TIA is a small stroke that doesn't cause any lasting
damage.

Symptoms of stroke and TIA include:

      * Blurred vision
      * Confusion
      * Loss of memory
      * Loss of sensation
      * Problems with speech and language, including loss of speech
      * Vision loss (partial or complete blindness)
      * Weakness in one part of your body
      * Problems with thinking, reasoning, and memory 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical exam. Your provider may use
a stethoscope to listen to the blood flow in your neck for an unusual sound
called a bruit. This sound may be a sign of carotid artery disease.

Your provider also may find clots in the blood vessels of your eye. If you
have had a stroke or TIA, a nervous system (neurological) exam will show other
problems.

You may also have the following tests:

      * Blood cholesterol and triglycerides test
      * Blood sugar (glucose) test
      * Ultrasound of the carotid arteries (carotid duplex ultrasound) to see how well blood is flowing through the carotid artery 

The following imaging tests may be used to examine the blood vessels in the
neck and brain:

      * Cerebral angiography
      * CT angiography
      * MR angiography

## Treatment

Treatment options include:

      * Blood-thinning medicines such as aspirin, clopidogrel (Plavix), warfarin (Coumadin), dabigatran (Pradaxa), or others to lower your risk for stroke
      * Medicine and diet changes to lower your cholesterol or blood pressure
      * No treatment, other than checking your carotid artery every year 

You may have certain procedures to treat a narrowed or blocked carotid artery:

      * Carotid endarterectomy \-- This surgery removes the plaque buildup in the carotid arteries.
      * Carotid angioplasty and stenting \-- This procedure opens a blocked artery and places a tiny wire mesh (stent) in the artery to keep it open. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Because there are no symptoms, you may not know you have carotid artery
disease until you have a stroke or TIA.

      * Stroke is a leading cause of death in the United States.
      * Some people who have a stroke recover most or all of their functions.
      * Others die of the stroke itself or from complications.
      * About one half of people who have a stroke have long-term problems. 

## Possible Complications

Major complications of carotid artery disease are:

      * Transient ischemic attack. This occurs when a blot clot briefly blocks a blood vessel to the brain. It causes the same symptoms as stroke. Symptoms last only a few minutes to an hour or two, but no longer than 24 hours. A TIA does not cause lasting damage. TIAs are a warning sign that a stroke may happen in the future if nothing is done to prevent it.
      * Stroke. When the blood supply to the brain is partly or completely blocked, it causes a stroke. Most often, this happens when a blood clot blocks a blood vessel to the brain. A stroke can also occur when a blood vessel breaks open or leaks. Strokes can cause long-term brain damage or death. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) as
soon as symptoms occur. The sooner you receive treatment, the better your
chance for recovery. With a stroke, every second of delay can cause more brain
injury.

## Prevention

Here's what you can do to help prevent carotid artery disease and stroke:

      * Quit smoking.
      * Follow a healthy, low-fat diet with plenty of fresh vegetables and fruits.
      * Do not drink more than 1 to 2 alcoholic drinks a day.
      * Do not use recreational drugs.
      * Exercise at least 30 minutes a day, most days of the week.
      * Get your cholesterol checked every 5 years. If you are being treated for high cholesterol, you need to have it checked more often.
      * Get your blood pressure checked every 1 to 2 years. If you have high blood pressure, heart disease, diabetes, or you have had a stroke, you need to have it checked more often. Ask your provider.
      * Follow your provider's treatment recommendations if you have high blood pressure, diabetes, high cholesterol, or heart disease. 

## Alternative Names

Carotid stenosis; Stenosis - carotid; Stroke - carotid artery; TIA - carotid
artery

## Patient Instructions

      * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery - discharge 
      * Carotid artery surgery - discharge
      * Cholesterol - drug treatment
      * Taking warfarin (Coumadin)

## References

Biller J, Ruland S, Schneck MJ. Ischemic cerebrovascular disease. In: Daroff
RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 65.

Brott TG, Halperin JL, Abbara S, et al. 2011
ASA/ACCF/AHA/AANN/AANS/ACR/ASNR/CNS/SAIP/SCAI/SIR/SNIS/SVM/SVS guideline on
the management of patients with extracranial carotid and vertebral artery
disease: executive summary: a report of the American College of Cardiology
Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines, and
the American Stroke Association, American Association of Neuroscience Nurses,
American Association of Neurological Surgeons, American College of Radiology,
American Society of Neuroradiology, Congress of Neurological Surgeons, Society
of Atherosclerosis Imaging and Prevention, Society for Cardiovascular
Angiography and Interventions, Society of Interventional Radiology, Society of
NeuroInterventional Surgery, Society for Vascular Medicine, and Society for
Vascular Surgery. _Catheter Cardiovasc Interv_. 2013;81(1):E76-E123. PMID:
23281092 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23281092.

Meschia JF, Bushnell C, Boden-Albala B, et al. Guidelines for the primary
prevention of stroke: a statement for healthcare professionals from the
American Heart Association/American Stroke Association. _Stroke_.
2014;45(12):3754-3832. PMID: 25355838 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25355838.

Meschia JF, Klaas JP, Brown RD Jr, Brott TG. Evaluation and management of
atherosclerotic carotid stenosis. _Mayo Clin Proc_. 2017;92(7):1144-1157.
PMID: 28688468 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28688468.

## Review Date 6/23/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Carotid Artery
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CarotidArteryDisease_thumb.jpg)Carotid
Artery Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

