Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000238.htm    
                                Description: The carotid artery brings needed blood to your brain and face. You have one of these arteries on each side of your neck. Carotid artery surgery is a procedure to restore proper blood flow to the brain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Carotid artery surgery - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000238.htm

# Carotid artery surgery - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The carotid artery brings needed blood to your brain and face. You have one of
these arteries on each side of your neck. Carotid artery surgery is a
procedure to restore proper blood flow to the brain.

## When You're in the Hospital

You had carotid artery surgery to restore proper blood flow to your brain.
Your surgeon made an incision (cut) in your neck over your carotid artery. A
tube was put in place for blood to flow around the blocked area during your
surgery. Your surgeon opened your carotid artery and carefully removed plaque
from inside it. The surgeon may have placed a stent (a tiny wire mesh tube) in
this area to help keep the artery open. Your artery was closed with stitches
after the plaque was removed. The skin incision was closed with surgical tape.

During your surgery, your heart and brain activity were monitored closely.

## What to Expect at Home

You should be able to do most of your normal activities within 3 to 4 weeks.
You may have a slight neck ache for about 2 weeks.

You may start doing everyday activities as soon as you feel up to it. You may
need help with meals, taking care of the house, and shopping at first.

DO NOT drive until your incision is healed, and you can turn your head without
discomfort.

You may have some numbness along your jaw and near your earlobe. This is from
the incision. Most of the time, this goes away in 6 to 12 months.

## Self-care

      * You may shower when you get home. It is ok if the surgical tape on your incision gets wet. DO NOT soak, scrub, or have shower water beat directly on the tape. The tape will curl up and fall off on its own after about a week.
      * Look carefully at your incision every day for any changes. DO NOT put lotion, cream, or herbal remedies on it without asking your health care provider first if it is ok.
      * Until the incision heals, DO NOT wear turtlenecks or other clothes around your neck that rub against the incision. 

Having carotid artery surgery does not cure the cause of the blockage in your
arteries. Your arteries may become narrow again. To prevent this:

      * Eat healthy foods, exercise (if your provider advises you to), stop smoking (if you smoke), and reduce your stress level.
      * Take medicine to help lower your cholesterol if your provider prescribes it.
      * If you are taking medicines for high blood pressure or diabetes, take them the way you have been told to take them.
      * You may be instructed to take aspirin and/or a medicine called clopidogrel (Plavix), or another medicine when you go home. These medicines keep your blood from forming clots in your arteries and in the stent. DO NOT stop taking them without talking with your provider first. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your health care provider if:

      * You have a headache, become confused, or have numbness or weakness in any part of your body.
      * You have problems with your eyesight, you cannot talk normally, or you have trouble understanding what other people are saying.
      * You cannot move your tongue to the side of your mouth.
      * You have trouble swallowing.
      * You have chest pain, dizziness, or shortness of breath that does not go away with rest.
      * You are coughing up blood or yellow or green mucus.
      * You have chills or a fever over 101Â°F (38.3Â°C) or a fever that does not go away after you take acetaminophen (Tylenol).
      * Your incision becomes red or painful, or yellow or green discharge is draining from it.
      * Your legs are swelling. 

## Alternative Names

Carotid endarterectomy - discharge; CEA - discharge; Percutaneous transluminal
angioplasty - carotid artery - discharge; PTA - carotid artery - discharge

## References

Brott TG, Halperin JL, Abbara S, et al. 2011
ASA/ACCF/AHA/AANN/AANS/ACR/ASNR/CNS/SAIP/SCAI/SIR/SNIS/SVM/SVS guideline on
the management of patients with extracranial carotid and vertebral artery
disease: executive summary: a report of the American College of Cardiology
Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines, and
the American Stroke Association, American Association of Neuroscience Nurses,
American Association of Neurological Surgeons, American College of Radiology,
American Society of Neuroradiology, Congress of Neurological Surgeons, Society
of Atherosclerosis Imaging and Prevention, Society for Cardiovascular
Angiography and Interventions, Society of Interventional Radiology, Society of
NeuroInterventional Surgery, Society for Vascular Medicine, and Society for
Vascular Surgery. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2011;57(8):1002-1044. PMID: 21288680
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21288680.

Cheng CC, Cheema F, Fankhauser G, Silva MB. Peripheral arterial disease. In:
Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of
Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 62.

Kinlay S, Bhatt DL. Treatment of noncoronary obstructive vascular disease. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann, DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 66.

## Read More

      * Carotid artery disease
      * Carotid artery surgery
      * Carotid duplex
      * Recovering after stroke
      * Risks of tobacco
      * Stent
      * Stroke
      * Tips on how to quit smoking
      * Transient ischemic attack

## Patient Instructions

      * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery - discharge 
      * Antiplatelet drugs - P2Y12 inhibitors
      * Aspirin and heart disease
      * Cholesterol and lifestyle
      * Cholesterol - drug treatment
      * Controlling your high blood pressure

## Review Date 3/24/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Carotid Artery Disease

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

