Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002953.htm    
                                Description: The blood vessels that bring blood to your brain and face are called the carotid arteries. You have a carotid artery on each side of your neck.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002953.htm

# Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The blood vessels that bring blood to your brain and face are called the
carotid arteries. You have a carotid artery on each side of your neck.

The blood flow in this artery can become partly or totally blocked by fatty
material called plaque. A partial blockage is called carotid artery stenosis
(narrowing). A blockage in your carotid artery can reduce the blood supply to
your brain. Sometimes part of a plaque can break off and block off another
artery. A stroke can occur if your brain does not get enough blood.

Two procedures can be used to treat a carotid artery that is narrowed or
blocked. These are:

      * Surgery to remove plaque buildup (endarterectomy)
      * Carotid angioplasty with stent placement 
![Atherosclerosis of internal carotid
artery](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18006.jpg)

## Description

Carotid angioplasty and stenting (CAS) is done using a small surgical cut.

      * Your health care provider will make a surgical cut in your groin after using some numbing medicine. You will also be given medicine to relax you.
      * The surgeon places a catheter (a flexible tube) through the cut into an artery. It is carefully moved up to your neck to the blockage in your carotid artery. Moving x-ray pictures (fluoroscopy) are used to see the artery and guide the catheter to the correct position.
      * Next, the surgeon will move a wire through the catheter to the blockage. Another catheter with a very small balloon on the end will be pushed over this wire and into the blockage. Then the balloon is inflated.
      * The balloon presses against the inside wall of your artery. This opens the artery and allows more blood to flow to your brain. A stent (a wire mesh tube) may also be placed in the blocked area. The stent is inserted at the same time as the balloon catheter. It expands with the balloon. The stent is left in place to help keep the artery open.
      * The surgeon then removes the balloon. 

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Carotid surgery (endarterectomy) is an older and effective way to treat
narrowed or blocked arteries. This procedure is very safe.

CAS has developed as a good alternative to surgery, when done by experienced
operators. Certain factors may favor stenting, such as:

      * The person is too ill to have carotid endarterectomy.
      * The location of the narrowing in the carotid artery makes surgery harder.
      * The person has had neck or carotid surgery in the past.
      * The person has had radiation to the neck. 

## Risks

Risks of carotid angioplasty and stent placement, which depend on factors such
as age, are:

      * Allergic reaction to dye
      * Blood clots or bleeding at the site of surgery
      * Brain damage
      * Clogging of the inside of the stent (in-stent restenosis)
      * Heart attack
      * Kidney failure (higher risk in people who already have kidney problems)
      * More blockage of the carotid artery over time
      * Seizures (this is rare)
      * Stroke

## Before the Procedure

Your provider will do a physical exam and perform several medical tests.

Always tell your provider what drugs you are taking, even drugs, supplements,
or herbs you bought without a prescription.

During the 2 weeks before your procedure:

      * Days before the surgery, you may have to stop taking drugs that make it harder for your blood to clot. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), clopidogrel (Plavix), ticagrelor (Brilinta), prasugrel (Effient) naprosyn (Aleve, Naproxen), and other drugs like these.
      * Ask your provider which drugs you should still take on the day of your surgery.
      * If you smoke, you need to stop. Ask your provider for help quitting.
      * Always let your provider know about any cold, flu, fever, herpes breakout, or other illness you may have before your surgery. 

DO NOT drink anything after midnight the night before your surgery, including
water.

On the day of your surgery:

      * Take the drugs you have been told to take with a small sip of water.
      * You will be told when to arrive at the hospital. 

## After the Procedure

After surgery, you may need to stay in the hospital overnight so that you can
be watched for any signs of bleeding, stroke, or poor blood flow to your
brain. You may be able to go home the same day if your procedure is done early
in the day and you are doing well. Your provider will talk to you about how to
care for yourself at home.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Carotid artery angioplasty and stenting may help lower your chance of having a
stroke. But you will need to make lifestyle changes to help prevent plaque
buildup, blood clots, and other problems in your carotid arteries over time.
You may need to change your diet and start an exercise program if your
provider tells you exercise is safe for you.

![Cholesterol
producers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19269.jpg)

## Alternative Names

Carotid angioplasty and stenting; CAS; Angioplasty - carotid artery; Carotid
artery stenosis - angioplasty

## Patient Instructions

      * Angina - discharge
      * Angina - what to ask your doctor 
      * Angina - when you have chest pain
      * Angioplasty and stent - heart - discharge 
      * Antiplatelet drugs - P2Y12 inhibitors
      * Aspirin and heart disease
      * Butter, margarine, and cooking oils
      * Cholesterol and lifestyle
      * Cholesterol - drug treatment
      * Controlling your high blood pressure
      * Dietary fats explained
      * Fast food tips
      * Heart attack - discharge
      * Heart attack - what to ask your doctor
      * Heart disease - risk factors
      * How to read food labels
      * Low-salt diet 
      * Mediterranean diet
      * Surgical wound care - open

## Images

      * ![Atherosclerosis of internal carotid artery](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18006t.jpg)Atherosclerosis of internal carotid artery
      * ![Carotid stenosis - X-ray of the right artery](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1153t.jpg)Carotid stenosis - X-ray of the right artery
      * ![Cholesterol producers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19269t.jpg)Cholesterol producers

## References

Aboyans V, Ricco JB, Bartelink MEL, et al. Editor's choice - 2017 ESC
guidelines on the diagnosis and treatment of peripheral arterial diseases, in
collaboration with the European Society for Vascular Surgery (ESVS). _Eur J
Vasc Endovasc Surg._ 2018;55(3):305-368. PMID: 28851596
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28851596.

Brott TG, Halperin JL, Abbara S, et al. 2011
ASA/ACCF/AHA/AANN/AANS/ACR/ASNR/CNS/SAIP/SCAI/SIR/SNIS/SVM/SVS guideline on
the management of patients with extracranial carotid and vertebral artery
disease: executive summary: a report of the American College of Cardiology
Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines, and
the American Stroke Association, American Association of Neuroscience Nurses,
American Association of Neurological Surgeons, American College of Radiology,
American Society of Neuroradiology, Congress of Neurological Surgeons, Society
of Atherosclerosis Imaging and Prevention, Society for Cardiovascular
Angiography and Interventions, Society of Interventional Radiology, Society of
NeuroInterventional Surgery, Society for Vascular Medicine, and Society for
Vascular Surgery. Developed in collaboration with the American Academy of
Neurology and Society of Cardiovascular Computed Tomography. _Catheter
Cardiovasc Interv._ 2013;81(1):E76-E123. PMID: 23281092
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23281092.

Brott TG, Howard G, Roubin GS, et al. Long-term results of stenting versus
endarterectomy for carotid-artery stenosis. N Engl J Med.
2016;374(11):1021-1031. PMID: 26890472 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26890472.

Hicks CW, Malas MB. Cerebrovascular disease: carotid artery stenting. In:
Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds. _Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular
Therapy._ 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 92.

Kinlay S, Bhatt DL. Treatment of noncoronary obstructive vascular disease. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine._ 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 66.

Rosenfield K, Matsumura JS, Chaturvedi S, et al. Randomized trial of stent
versus surgery for asymptomatic carotid stenosis. _N Engl J Med._
2016;374(11):1011-1020. PMID: 26886419 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26886419.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Internal review and update on 03/28/2019 by David
Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Carotid Artery
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CarotidArteryDisease_thumb.jpg)Carotid
Artery Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

