Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000235.htm    
                                Description: You had an angioplasty done when you were in the hospital. You may have also had a stent (a tiny wire mesh tube) placed in the blocked area to keep it open. Both of these were done to open a narrowed or    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000235.htm

# Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had an angioplasty done when you were in the hospital. You may have also
had a stent (a tiny wire mesh tube) placed in the blocked area to keep it
open. Both of these were done to open a narrowed or blocked artery that
supplies blood to your brain.

![Atherosclerosis of internal carotid
artery](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18006.jpg)

Your health care provider inserted a catheter (flexible tube) into an artery
through an incision (cut) in your groin or your arm.

Your provider used live x-rays to carefully guide the catheter up to the area
of the blockage in your carotid artery.

Then your provider passed a guide wire through the catheter to the blockage. A
balloon catheter was pushed over the guide wire and into the blockage. The
tiny balloon on the end was inflated. This opened the blocked artery.

## What to Expect at Home

You should be able to do most of your normal activities within a few days, but
take it easy.

## Self-care

If your provider put the catheter in through your groin:

      * Walking short distances on a flat surface is ok. Limit going up and down stairs to about 2 times a day for the first 2 to 3 days.
      * DO NOT do yard work, drive, or play sports for at least 2 days, or for the number of days your doctor tells you to wait. 

You will need to care for your incision.

      * Your provider will tell you how often to change your dressing (bandage).
      * You need to take care that the incision site does not become infected. If you have pain or other signs of infection, call your doctor.
      * If your incision bleeds or swells, lie down and put pressure on it for 30 minutes. If the bleeding or swelling does not stop or gets worse, call your doctor and return to the hospital. Or, go to the closest emergency room, or call 911 right away. If bleeding or swelling are severe even before 30 minutes have passed, call 911 right away. DO NOT delay. 

Having carotid artery surgery does not cure the cause of the blockage in your
arteries. Your arteries may become narrow again. To lower your chances of this
happening:

      * Eat healthy foods, exercise (if your provider advises you to), stop smoking (if you smoke), and reduce your stress level. Do not drink alcohol in excess.
      * Take medicine to help lower your cholesterol if your provider prescribes it.
      * If you are taking medicines for blood pressure or diabetes, take them the way you have been told to take them.
      * Your provider may ask you to take aspirin and/or another medicine called clopidogrel (Plavix), or another medicine, when you go home. These medicines keep your blood from forming clots in your arteries and in the stent. DO NOT stop taking them without talking with your provider first. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your health care provider if:

      * You have a headache, become confused, or have numbness or weakness in any part of your body.
      * You have problems with your eyesight or you cannot talk normally.
      * There is bleeding at the catheter insertion site that does not stop when pressure is applied.
      * There is swelling at the catheter site.
      * Your leg or arm below where the catheter was inserted changes color or becomes cool to touch, pale, or numb.
      * The small incision from your catheter becomes red or painful, or yellow or green discharge is draining from it.
      * Your legs are swelling.
      * You have chest pain or shortness of breath that does not go away with rest.
      * You have dizziness, fainting, or you are very tired.
      * You are coughing up blood or yellow or green mucus.
      * You have chills or a fever over 101Â°F (38.3Â°C). 

## Alternative Names

Carotid angioplasty and stenting - discharge; CAS - discharge; Angioplasty of
the carotid artery - discharge

## Images

      * ![Atherosclerosis of internal carotid artery](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18006t.jpg)Atherosclerosis of internal carotid artery

## References

Brott TG, Halperin JL, Abbara S, et al. 2011
ASA/ACCF/AHA/AANN/AANS/ACR/ASNR/CNS/SAIP/SCAI/SIR/SNIS/SVM/SVS guideline on
the management of patients with extracranial carotid and vertebral artery
disease: executive summary: a report of the American College of Cardiology
Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines, and
the American Stroke Association, American Association of Neuroscience Nurses,
American Association of Neurological Surgeons, American College of Radiology,
American Society of Neuroradiology, Congress of Neurological Surgeons, Society
of Atherosclerosis Imaging and Prevention, Society for Cardiovascular
Angiography and Interventions, Society of Interventional Radiology, Society of
NeuroInterventional Surgery, Society for Vascular Medicine, and Society for
Vascular Surgery. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2011;57(8):1002-1044. PMID: 21288680
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21288680.

Cheng CC, Cheema F, Fankhauser G, Silva MB. Peripheral arterial disease. In:
Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of
Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 62.

Kinlay S, Bhatt DL. Treatment of noncoronary obstructive vascular disease. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann, DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 66.

## Read More

      * Carotid artery disease
      * Carotid artery surgery
      * Recovering after stroke
      * Risks of tobacco
      * Stent
      * Stroke
      * Tips on how to quit smoking
      * Transient ischemic attack

## Patient Instructions

      * Antiplatelet drugs - P2Y12 inhibitors
      * Aspirin and heart disease
      * Carotid artery surgery - discharge
      * Cholesterol and lifestyle
      * Cholesterol - drug treatment
      * Controlling your high blood pressure

## Review Date 3/13/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Carotid Artery Disease

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

