Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003774.htm    
                                Description: Carotid duplex is an ultrasound test that shows how well blood is flowing through the carotid arteries. The carotid arteries are located in the neck. They supply blood directly to the brain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Carotid duplex

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003774.htm

# Carotid duplex

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Carotid duplex is an ultrasound test that shows how well blood is flowing
through the carotid arteries. The carotid arteries are located in the neck.
They supply blood directly to the brain.

## How the Test is Performed

Ultrasound is a painless method that uses sound waves to create images of the
inside of the body. The test is done in a vascular lab or radiology
department.

The test is done in the following way:

      * You lie on your back. Your head is supported to keep it from moving. The ultrasound technician applies a water-based gel to your neck to help with the transmission of the sound waves.
      * Next, the technician moves a wand called a transducer back and forth over the area.
      * The device sends sound waves to the arteries in your neck. The sound waves bounce off the blood vessels and form images or pictures of the insides of the arteries. 

## How to Prepare for the Test

No preparation is necessary.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel some pressure as the transducer is moved around your neck. The
pressure should not cause any pain. You may also hear a "whooshing" sound.
This is normal.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test checks blood flow in the carotid arteries. It can detect:

      * Blood clotting (thrombosis)
      * Narrowing in the arteries (stenosis)
      * Other causes of blockage in the carotid arteries 

Your doctor may order this test if:

      * You have had a stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA)
      * You need a follow-up test because your carotid artery was found to be narrowed in the past or you have had surgery on the artery
      * Your doctor hears an abnormal sound called a bruit over the carotid neck arteries. This may mean the artery is narrowed. 

## Normal Results

The results will tell your doctor how open or narrowed your carotid arteries
are. For example, the arteries may be 10% narrowed, 50% narrowed, or 75%
narrowed.

A normal result means there is no problem with the blood flow in the carotid
arteries. The artery is free of any significant blockage, narrowing, or other
problem.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result means the artery may be narrowed, or something is changing
the blood flow in the carotid arteries. This is a sign of atherosclerosis or
other blood vessel conditions.

In general, the more narrowed the artery is, the higher your risk of stroke.

Depending on the results, your doctor may want you to:

      * Consider surgery
      * Have additional tests (such as cerebral angiography, CT angiography, and magnetic resonance angiography)
      * Follow a healthy diet and lifestyle to prevent hardening of the arteries
      * Repeat the test again in the future 

## Risks

There are no risks with having this procedure.

## Alternative Names

Scan - carotid duplex; Carotid ultrasound; Carotid artery ultrasound;
Ultrasound - carotid; Vascular ultrasound - carotid; Ultrasound - vascular -
carotid; Stroke - carotid duplex; TIA - carotid duplex; Transient ischemic
attack - carotid duplex

## Patient Instructions

      * Carotid artery surgery - discharge

## Images

      * ![Carotid stenosis - X-ray of the left artery](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1152t.jpg)Carotid stenosis - X-ray of the left artery
      * ![Carotid stenosis - X-ray of the right artery](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1153t.jpg)Carotid stenosis - X-ray of the right artery
      * ![Carotid duplex](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18051t.jpg)Carotid duplex

## References

Bluth EI, Johnson SI, Troxclair L. The extracranial cerebral vessels. In:
Rumack CM, Levine D, eds. _Diagnostic Ultrasound_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 26.

Daly C, Rodriguez HE. Carotid artery occlusive disease. _Surg Clin N Am_.
2013;93(4):813-832. PMID: 23885933 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23885933.

Kaufman JA, Nesbit GM. Carotid and vertebral arteries. In: Kaufman JA, Lee MJ,
eds. _Vascular and Interventional Radiology: The Requisites_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 5.

## Review Date 6/25/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Carotid Artery
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CarotidArteryDisease_thumb.jpg)Carotid
Artery Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

