Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000717.htm    
                                Description: The carotid arteries provide the main blood supply to the brain. They are located on each side of your neck. You can feel their pulse under your jawline.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Carotid artery stenosis - self-care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000717.htm

# Carotid artery stenosis - self-care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The carotid arteries provide the main blood supply to the brain. They are
located on each side of your neck. You can feel their pulse under your
jawline.

Carotid artery stenosis occurs when the carotid arteries become narrowed or
blocked. This can lead to stroke.

Whether or not your doctor recommended surgery to unblock narrowed arteries,
medicines and lifestyle changes can:

      * Prevent further narrowing of these important arteries
      * Prevent a stroke from occurring 

## Lifestyle Changes

Making certain changes to your diet and exercise habits can help treat carotid
artery disease. These healthy changes can also help you maintain a healthy
weight and manage high blood pressure and cholesterol.

      * Eat a healthy, low-fat diet.
      * Eat plenty of fruits and vegetables. Fresh or frozen are better choices than canned, which may have added salt or sugar.
      * Choose high-fiber foods, such as whole-grain breads, pastas, cereals, and crackers.
      * Eat lean meats and skinless chicken and turkey.
      * Eat fish twice a week. Fish is good for your arteries.
      * Cut back on saturated fat, cholesterol, and added salt and sugar. 

Be more active.

      * Talk with your health care provider first to make sure you are healthy enough to exercise.
      * Walking is an easy way to add activity to your day. Start with 10 to 15 minutes a day.
      * Start gradually and build up to 150 minutes of exercise a week. 

Stop smoking, if you smoke. Quitting reduces your risk of stroke. Talk with
your provider about quit-smoking programs.

## Medicines

If lifestyle changes do not lower your cholesterol and blood pressure enough,
medicines may be prescribed.

      *  **Cholesterol medicines** help your liver produce less cholesterol. This prevents plaque, a waxy deposit, from building up in the carotid arteries.
      *  **Blood pressure medicines** relax your blood vessels, make your heart beat slower, and help your body get rid of extra fluid. This helps lower high blood pressure.
      *  **Blood-thinning medicines** , such as aspirin or clopidogrel, decrease the chance of blood clots forming and help lower your risk of stroke. 

These medicines can have side effects. If you notice side effects, be sure to
tell your doctor. Your doctor may change the dose or type of medicine you take
to help reduce side effects. Never stop taking medicines or take less medicine
without talking to your provider first.

## Follow-up Care

Your provider will want to monitor you and see how well your treatment is
working. At these visits, your provider may:

      * Use a stethoscope to listen to the blood flow in your neck
      * Check your blood pressure
      * Check your cholesterol levels 

You may also have imaging tests done to see if the blockages in your carotid
arteries are becoming worse.

## When to Call the Doctor

Having carotid artery disease puts you at risk for stroke. If you think you
have symptoms of stroke, go to the emergency room or call your local emergency
number (such as 9-1-1) immediately. Symptoms of a stroke include:

      * Blurred vision
      * Confusion
      * Loss of memory
      * Loss of sensation
      * Problems with speech and language
      * Vision loss
      * Weakness in one part of your body 

Get help as soon as symptoms occur. The sooner you receive treatment, the
better your chance for recovery. With a stroke, every second of delay can
result in more brain injury.

## Alternative Names

Carotid artery disease - self-care

## References

Biller J, Ruland S, Schneck MJ. Ischemic cerebrovascular disease. In: Daroff
RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 65.

Goldstein LB. Ischemic cerebrovascular disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 407.

Osgood MJ, Abularrage CJ. The management of recurrent carotid artery stenosis.
In: Cameron JL, Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:941-948.

Ricotta JJ, Ricotta JJ. Carotid artery disease: decision making including
medical therapy. In: Cronenwett JL, Johnston W, eds. _Rutherford's Vascular
Surgery_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 99.

## Review Date 2/28/2018

Updated by: Mary C. Mancini, MD, PhD, Department of Surgery, Louisiana State
University Health Sciences Center-Shreveport, Shreveport, LA. Review provided
by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Carotid Artery Disease

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

