Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003743.htm    
                                Description: Joint fluid Gram stain is a laboratory test to identify bacteria in a sample of joint fluid using a special series of stains (colors). The Gram stain method is one of the most commonly used methods to    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Joint fluid Gram stain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003743.htm

# Joint fluid Gram stain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Joint fluid Gram stain is a laboratory test to identify bacteria in a sample
of joint fluid using a special series of stains (colors). The Gram stain
method is one of the most commonly used methods to rapidly identify the cause
of bacterial infections.

## How the Test is Performed

A sample of joint fluid is needed. This may be done in a health care
provider's office using a needle, or during an operating room procedure.
Removing the sample is called joint fluid aspiration.

The fluid sample is sent to a lab where a small drop is spread in a very thin
layer onto a microscope slide. This is called a smear. Several different
colored stains are applied to the sample. The laboratory personnel will look
at the stained smear under a microscope to see if bacteria are present. The
color, size, and shape of the cells help identify the bacteria.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your provider will tell you how to prepare for the procedure. No special
preparation is needed. But, tell your provider if you're taking a blood
thinner, such as aspirin, warfarin (Coumadin) or clopidogrel (Plavix). These
medicines can affect test results or your ability to take the test.

## How the Test will Feel

Sometimes, the provider will first inject numbing medicine into the skin with
a small needle, which will sting. A larger needle is then used to draw out the
synovial fluid.

This test may also cause some discomfort if the tip of the needle touches
bone. The procedure usually lasts less than 1 to 2 minutes.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is performed when there is unexplained swelling, joint pain, and
inflammation of a joint, or to check for suspected joint infection.

## Normal Results

A normal result means no bacteria are present on the Gram stain.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results mean bacteria were seen on the Gram stain. This may be a sign
of a joint infection, for example, gonococcal arthritis or arthritis due to
bacteria called _Staphylococcus aureus_.

## Risks

Risks of this test include:

      * Infection of the joint -- unusual, but more common with repeated aspirations
      * Bleeding into the joint space

## Alternative Names

Gram stain of joint fluid

## References

El-Gabalawy HS. Synovial fluid analyses, synovial biopsy, and synovial
pathology. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC, Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds.
_Kelly and Firestein's Textbook of Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 53.

Karcher DS, McPherson RA. Cerebrospinal, synovial, serous body fluids, and
alternative specimens. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical
Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23d ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 29.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Arthritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ArthritisII_thumb.jpg)Arthritis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

