Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000981.htm    
                                Description: Toxic synovitis is a condition affecting children that causes hip pain and limping.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Toxic synovitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000981.htm

# Toxic synovitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Toxic synovitis is a condition affecting children that causes hip pain and
limping.

## Causes

Toxic synovitis occurs in children before puberty. It usually affects children
from 3 to 10 years old. It is a type of inflammation of the hip. Its cause is
not known. Boys are affected more often than girls.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Hip pain (on one side only)
      * Limp
      * Thigh pain, in front and toward the middle of the thigh
      * Knee pain
      * Low-grade fever, less than 101Â°F (38.33Â°C)

Aside from the hip discomfort, the child does not usually appear ill.

## Exams and Tests

Toxic synovitis is diagnosed when other more serious conditions have been
ruled out, such as:

      * Septic hip (infection of the hip)
      * Slipped capital femoral epiphysis (separation of the ball of the hip joint from the thigh bone, or femur)
      * Legg-Calve-Perthes disease (disorder that occurs when the ball of the thigh bone in the hip does not get enough blood, causing the bone to die)

Tests used to diagnose toxic synovitis include:

      * Ultrasound of the hip
      * X-ray of the hip
      * ESR
      * C-reactive protein (CRP)
      * Complete blood count (CBC)

Other tests that may be done to rule out other causes of hip pain:

      * Aspiration of fluid from the hip joint
      * Bone scan
      * MRI

## Treatment

Treatment often includes limiting activity to make the child more comfortable.
But, there is no danger with normal activities. The health care provider may
prescribe nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) to reduce pain.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The hip pain goes away within 7 to 10 days.

## Possible Complications

Toxic synovitis goes away on its own. There are no expected long-term
complications.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your child's provider if:

      * Your child has unexplained hip pain or a limp, with or without a fever
      * Your child has been diagnosed with toxic synovitis and the hip pain lasts for longer than 10 days, the pain gets worse, or a high fever develops

## Alternative Names

Synovitis - toxic; Transient synovitis

## References

Sankar WN, Winell JJ, Horn BD, Wells L. The hip. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW,
Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 698.

Singer NG. Evaluation of children with rheumatologic complaints. In: Hochberg
MC, Gravallese EM, Silman AJ, Smolen JS, Weinblatt ME, Weisman MH, eds.
_Rheumatology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 105.

## Review Date 7/7/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Arthritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ArthritisII_thumb.jpg)Arthritis
_Read more_

![Hip Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HipInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Hip
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

