Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000450.htm    
                                Description: Adult Still disease (ASD) is a rare illness that causes high fevers, rash, and joint pain. It may lead to long-term (chronic) arthritis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Adult Still disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000450.htm

# Adult Still disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Adult Still disease (ASD) is a rare illness that causes high fevers, rash, and
joint pain. It may lead to long-term (chronic) arthritis.

Adult Still disease is a severe version of juvenile idiopathic arthritis
(JIA), which occurs in children. Adults can have the same condition, although
it is much less common. It is also called adult-onset Still disease (AOSD).

## Causes

Fewer than 1 out of 100,000 people develop ASD each year. It affects women
more often than men.

The cause of adult Still disease is unknown. No risk factors for the disease
have been identified.

## Symptoms

Almost all people with the disease will have fever, joint pain, sore throat,
and a rash.

      * Joint pain, warmth, and swelling are common. Most often, several joints are involved at the same time. Often, people with the condition have morning stiffness of joints that lasts for several hours.
      * The fever comes on quickly once per day, most commonly in the afternoon or evening.
      * The skin rash is often salmon-pink colored and comes and goes with the fever. 

Additional symptoms include:

      * Abdominal pain and swelling
      * Pain when taking a deep breath (pleurisy)
      * Sore throat
      * Swollen lymph nodes (glands)
      * Weight loss 

The spleen or liver may become swollen. Lung and heart inflammation may also
occur.

## Exams and Tests

AOSD can only be diagnosed after many other diseases (such as infections and
cancer) are ruled out. You may need many medical tests before a final
diagnosis is made.

A physical exam may show a fever, rash, and arthritis. The health care
provider will use a stethoscope to listen for changes in the sound of your
heart or lungs.

The following blood tests can be helpful in diagnosing adult Still disease:

      * Complete blood count (CBC), may show a high number of white blood cells (granulocytes) and reduced number of red blood cells.
      * C-reactive protein (CRP), a measure of inflammation, will be higher than normal.
      * ESR (sedimentation rate), a measure of inflammation, will be higher than normal.
      * Ferritin level will be very high.
      * Fibrinogen level will be high.
      * Liver function tests will show high levels of AST and ALT.
      * Rheumatoid factor and ANA test will be negative.
      * Blood cultures and viral studies will be negative.

Other tests may be needed to check for inflammation of the joints, chest,
liver, and spleen:

      * Abdominal ultrasound
      * CT scan of the abdomen
      * X-rays of the joints, chest, or stomach area (abdomen)

## Treatment

The goal of treatment for adult Still disease is to control the symptoms of
arthritis. Aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs),
such as ibuprofen, are most often used first.

Prednisone may be used for more severe cases.

If the disease is severe or persists for a long time (becomes chronic),
medicines that suppress the immune system might be needed. Such medicines
include:

      * Methotrexate
      * Anakinra (interleukin-1 receptor agonist)
      * Tocilizumab (interleukin 6 inhibitor)
      * Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) antagonists such as etanercept (Enbrel)

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In many people, symptoms may come back several times over the next few years.

Symptoms continue for a long time (chronic) in about one third of people with
adult Still disease.

## Possible Complications

A rare form of the disease, called macrophage activation syndrome, can be very
severe with high fevers, severe illness and low blood cell counts. The bone
marrow is involved and biopsy is needed to make the diagnosis.

Other complications may include:

      * Arthritis in several joints
      * Liver disease
      * Pericarditis
      * Pleural effusion
      * Spleen enlargement

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of adult Still disease.

If you have already been diagnosed with the condition, you should call your
provider if you have a cough or difficulty breathing.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention.

## Alternative Names

Still's disease - adult; Adult-onset Still's disease; AOSD; Wissler-Fanconi
syndrome

## References

Alonso ER, Marques AO. Adult-onset still disease. In: Hochberg MC, Gravallese
EM, Silman AJ, Smolen JS, Weinblatt ME, Weisman MH, eds. _Rheumatology_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 173.

Gerfaud-Valentin M, Maucort-Boulch D, Hot A, et al. Adult-onset still disease:
manifestations, treatment, outcome, and prognostic factors in 57 patients.
_Medicine (Baltimore)_. 2014;93(2):91-99. PMID: 24646465
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24646465.

Kaneko Y, Kameda H, Ikeda K, et al. Tocilizumab in patients with adult-onset
still's disease refractory to glucocorticoid treatment: a randomised, double-
blind, placebo-controlled phase III trial. _Ann Rheum Dis_.
2018;77(12):1720-1729. PMID: 30279267 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30279267.

National Organization for Rare Disorders website. Rare diseases.org. Adult
onset Still's disease. rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/adult-onset-stills-
disease/. Accessed March 30, 2019.

Ortiz-SanjuÃ¡n F, Blanco R, Riancho-Zarrabeitia L, et al. Efficacy of anakinra
in refractory adult-onset Still's disease: multicenter study of 41 patients
and literature review. _Medicine (Baltimore)_. 2015;94(39):e1554. PMID:
26426623 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26426623.

## Review Date 1/10/2019

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, MACR, ABIM Board Certified in
Rheumatology, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Arthritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ArthritisII_thumb.jpg)Arthritis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

