Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000896.htm    
                                Description: The radius is the larger of the two bones between your elbow and wrist. A Colles fracture is a break in the radius close to the wrist. It was named for the surgeon who first described it. Typically, the    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Colles wrist fracture - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000896.htm

# Colles wrist fracture - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The radius is the larger of the two bones between your elbow and wrist. A
Colles fracture is a break in the radius close to the wrist. It was named for
the surgeon who first described it. Typically, the break is located about an
inch (2.5 centimeters) below where the bone joins the wrist.

A Colles fracture is a common fracture that happens more often in women than
men. In fact, it is the most common broken bone for women up to the age of 75.

## About Your Injury

A Colles wrist fracture is caused by a forceful injury to the wrist. This may
occur due to:

      * Car accident
      * Contact sports
      * Falling while skiing, riding a bike, or other activity
      * Falling on an outstretched arm (most common cause) 

Having osteoporosis is a major risk factor for wrist fractures. Osteoporosis
makes bones brittle, so they need less force to break. Sometimes a broken
wrist is the first sign of thinning bones.

## What to Expect

You will likely get a splint to keep your wrist from moving.

If you have a small fracture and the bone pieces do not move out of place, you
will likely wear a splint for 3 to 5 weeks. Some breaks may require you to
wear a cast for about 6 to 8 weeks. You may need a second cast if the first
one gets too loose as the swelling goes down.

If your break is severe, you may need to see a bone doctor (orthopedic
surgeon). Treatments may include:

      * Closed reduction, a procedure to set (reduce) a broken bone without surgery
      * Surgery to insert pins and plates to hold your bones in place or replace the broken piece with a metal part 

## Self-care at Home

To help with pain and swelling:

      * Elevate your arm or hand up above your heart. This can help reduce swelling and pain.
      * Apply an ice pack to the injured area.
      * Use the ice for 15 to 20 minutes every few hours for the first few days while the swelling goes down.
      * To prevent skin injury, wrap the ice pack in a clean cloth before applying it. 

For pain, you can take over-the-counter ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen
(Aleve, Naprosyn), or acetaminophen (Tylenol). You can buy these pain
medicines without a prescription.

      * Talk with your health care provider before using these medicines if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, or have had stomach ulcers or internal bleeding in the past.
      * DO NOT take more than the amount recommended on the bottle.
      * DO NOT give aspirin to children. 

For severe pain, you may need a prescription pain reliever.

Follow your provider's instructions about elevating your wrist and using a
sling.

      * If you have a cast, follow the instructions for your cast that your provider gave you.
      * Keep your splint or cast dry. 

## Activity

Exercising your fingers, elbow, and shoulder is important. It can help keep
them from losing their function. Talk with your provider about how much
exercise to do and when you can do it. Typically, the provider or surgeon will
want you to start moving your fingers as soon as possible after the splint or
cast is put on.

## Follow-up

The initial recovery from a wrist fracture can take 3 to 4 months or more. You
may need physical therapy.

You should start working with a physical therapist as soon as your provider
recommends. The work may seem hard and at times painful. But doing the
exercises you are given will speed your recovery. If you have surgery, you may
start physical therapy earlier to avoid wrist stiffness. However, if you don't
have surgery, you will most often start wrist motion later to avoid shifting
of the fracture.

It can take anywhere from a few months to a year for your wrist to fully
recover its function. Some people have stiffness and pain in their wrist for
the rest of their life.

## When to Call the Doctor

After your arm is placed in a cast or splint, see your provider if:

      * Your cast is too loose or too tight.
      * Your hand or arm is swollen above or below your cast or splint.
      * Your cast is falling apart or rubs or irritates your skin.
      * Pain or swelling continues to get worse or becomes severe.
      * You have numbness, tingling, or coldness in your hand or your fingers look dark.
      * You cannot move your fingers because of swelling or pain. 

## Alternative Names

Distal radius fracture; Broken wrist

## Images

      * ![Colles fracture](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9205t.jpg)Colles fracture

## References

Kalb RL, Fowler GC. Fracture care. In: Fowler GC, ed. _Pfenninger and Fowler's
Procedures for Primary Care_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap
178.

Perez EA. Fractures of the shoulder, arm, and forearm. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH,
Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 57.

Williams DT, Kim HT. Wrist and forearm. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 44.

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Wrist Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

