Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002404.htm    
                                Description: Vitamin C is a water-soluble vitamin. It is needed for normal growth and development.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vitamin C

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002404.htm

# Vitamin C

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Vitamin C is a water-soluble vitamin. It is needed for normal growth and
development.

Water-soluble vitamins dissolve in water. Leftover amounts of the vitamin
leave the body through the urine. Although the body keeps a small reserve of
these vitamins, they have to be taken regularly to prevent a shortage in the
body.

## Function

Vitamin C is needed for the growth and repair of tissues in all parts of your
body. It is used to:

      * Form an important protein used to make skin, tendons, ligaments, and blood vessels
      * Heal wounds and form scar tissue
      * Repair and maintain cartilage, bones, and teeth
      * Aid in the absorption of iron 

Vitamin C is one of many antioxidants. Antioxidants are nutrients that block
some of the damage caused by free radicals.

      * Free radicals are made when your body breaks down food or when you are exposed to tobacco smoke or radiation.
      * The buildup of free radicals over time is largely responsible for the aging process.
      * Free radicals may play a role in cancer, heart disease, and conditions like arthritis. 

The body is not able to make vitamin C on its own. It does not store vitamin
C. It is therefore important to include plenty of vitamin C-containing foods
in your daily diet.

For many years, vitamin C has been a popular household remedy for the common
cold.

      * Research shows that for most people, vitamin C supplements or vitamin C-rich foods do not reduce the risk of getting the common cold.
      * However, people who take vitamin C supplements regularly might have slightly shorter colds or somewhat milder symptoms.
      * Taking a vitamin C supplement after a cold starts does not appear to be helpful.

## Food Sources

All fruits and vegetables contain some amount of vitamin C.

Fruits with the highest sources of vitamin C include:

      * Cantaloupe
      * Citrus fruits and juices, such as orange and grapefruit
      * Kiwi fruit
      * Mango
      * Papaya
      * Pineapple
      * Strawberries, raspberries, blueberries, and cranberries
      * Watermelon 

Vegetables with the highest sources of vitamin C include:

      * Broccoli, Brussels sprouts, and cauliflower
      * Green and red peppers
      * Spinach, cabbage, turnip greens, and other leafy greens
      * Sweet and white potatoes
      * Tomatoes and tomato juice
      * Winter squash 

Some cereals and other foods and beverages are fortified with vitamin C.
Fortified means a vitamin or mineral has been added to the food. Check the
product labels to see how much vitamin C is in the product.

Cooking vitamin C-rich foods or storing them for a long period of time can
reduce the vitamin C content. Microwaving and steaming vitamin C-rich foods
may reduce cooking losses. The best food sources of vitamin C are uncooked or
raw fruits and vegetables. Exposure to light can also reduce vitamin C
content. Choose orange juice that is sold in a carton instead of a clear
bottle.

## Side Effects

Serious side effects from too much vitamin C are very rare, because the body
cannot store the vitamin. However, amounts greater than 2,000 mg/day are not
recommended. Doses this high can lead to stomach upset and diarrhea. Large
doses of vitamin C supplementation are not recommended during pregnancy. They
can lead to shortage of vitamin C in the baby after delivery.

Too little vitamin C can lead to signs and symptoms of deficiency, including:

      * Anemia
      * Bleeding gums
      * Decreased ability to fight infection
      * Decreased wound-healing rate
      * Dry and splitting hair
      * Easy bruising
      * Gingivitis (inflammation of the gums)
      * Nosebleeds
      * Possible weight gain because of slowed metabolism
      * Rough, dry, scaly skin
      * Swollen and painful joints
      * Weakened tooth enamel 

A severe form of vitamin C deficiency is known as scurvy. This mainly affects
older, malnourished adults.

## Recommendations

The Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) for vitamins reflects how much of each
vitamin most people should get each day. The RDA for vitamins may be used as
goals for each person.

How much of each vitamin you need depends on your age and gender. Other
factors, such as pregnancy and illnesses, are also important.

The best way to get the daily requirement of essential vitamins, including
vitamin C, is to eat a balanced diet that contains a variety of foods.

Dietary Reference Intakes for vitamin C:

Infants

      * 0 to 6 months: 40* milligrams/day (mg/day)
      * 7 to 12 months: 50* mg/day 

*Adequate Intake (AI)

Children

      * 1 to 3 years: 15 mg/day
      * 4 to 8 years: 25 mg/day
      * 9 to 13 years: 45 mg/day 

Adolescents

      * Girls 14 to 18 years: 65 mg/day
      * Pregnant teens: 80 mg/day
      * Breastfeeding teens: 115 mg/day
      * Boys 14 to 18 years: 75 mg/day 

Adults

      * Men age 19 and older: 90 mg/day
      * Women age 19 year and older: 75 mg/day
      * Pregnant women: 85 mg/day
      * Breastfeeding women: 120 mg/day 

Smokers or those who are around secondhand smoke at any age should increase
their daily amount of vitamin C an additional 35 mg per day.

Women who are pregnant or breastfeeding and those who smoke need higher
amounts of vitamin C. Ask your health care provider what amount is best for
you.

## Alternative Names

Ascorbic acid; Dehydroascorbic acid

## Images

      * ![Vitamin C benefit](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18107t.jpg)Vitamin C benefit
      * ![Vitamin C deficit](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18108t.jpg)Vitamin C deficit
      * ![Vitamin C source](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18109t.jpg)Vitamin C source

## References

Mason JB. Vitamins, trace minerals, and other micronutrients. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 218.

Salwen MJ. Vitamins and trace elements. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 26.

## Review Date 2/2/2019

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CNSC, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Vitamina C](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VitaminC2_thumb.jpg)Vitamin C
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

