Link: https://medlineplus.gov/hepatitisa.html    
                                Description: Hepatitis A virus can infect people who accidentally ingest fecal matter in contaminated food or water or through personal contact. More on HAV here.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Hepatitis A

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/hepatitisa.html

#  Hepatitis A

Also called: HAV

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors

### Learn More

    * Related Issues

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Men
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Your liver is the largest organ inside your body. It helps your body digest
food, store energy, and remove poisons. Hepatitis is an inflammation of the
liver. One type, hepatitis A, is caused by the hepatitis A virus (HAV). The
disease spreads through contact with an infected person's stool. You can get
it from

    * Eating food made by an infected person who did not wash their hands after using the bathroom
    * Drinking untreated water or eating food washed in untreated water
    * Putting into your mouth a finger or object that came into contact with an infected person's stool
    * Having close contact with an infected person, such as through sex or caring for someone who is ill

Most people do not have any symptoms. If you do have symptoms, you may feel as
if you have the flu. You may also have yellowish eyes and skin, called
jaundice. A blood test will show if you have HAV.

HAV usually gets better in a few weeks without treatment. However, some people
can have symptoms for up to 6 months. Your doctor may suggest medicines to
help relieve your symptoms.

The hepatitis A vaccine can prevent HAV. Good hygiene can also help. Wash your
hands thoroughly before preparing food, after using the toilet, or after
changing a diaper. International travelers should be careful about drinking
tap water.

NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Start Here

    * Hepatitis A (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Hepatitis A (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Hepatitis A ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Hepatitis A Test (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
    * Hepatitis Testing: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Liver Function Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Hepatitis A Vaccine: What You Need to Know (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Hepatitis A: Questions and Answers (Immunization Action Coalition) \- PDF

## Related Issues

    * Hepatitis A FAQs (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Travelers' Health: Hepatitis A (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Statistics and Research

    * FastStats: Viral Hepatitis (National Center for Health Statistics)
    * Surveillance for Viral Hepatitis - United States, 2014 (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hepatitis A ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Autoimmune Hepatic Failure Following Acute Hepatitis A is Accompanied by Inflammatory...
    * Article: Causes and countermeasures for repeated outbreaks of hepatitis A among adults...
    * Article: An outbreak of hepatitis A in Canada: The use of a...
    * Hepatitis A -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
    * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * Hepatitis (Nemours Foundation)
    * Hepatitis A (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

    * Hepatitis (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Men

    * Protect Yourself against Hepatitis A and B: A Guide for Gay and Bisexual Men (Immunization Action Coalition) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Hepatitis A (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Hepatitis A -- children (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Hepatitis A and the Vaccine (Shot) to Prevent It (American Academy of Family Physicians, American Academy of Pediatrics, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF
    * Hepatitis A Vaccine: What You Need to Know (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Hepatitis virus panel (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Hepatitis A](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HepatitisA.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Hepatitis A
    * Hepatitis A -- children
    * Hepatitis virus panel

## Related Health Topics

    * Hepatitis
    * Hepatitis B
    * Hepatitis C
    * Hepatitis Testing

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Hepatitis A is the National
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Hepatitis A_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 12 October 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

