Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000214.htm    
                                Description: Constipation is when you are passing stools less often than you normally do. Your stool may become hard and dry, and it is difficult to pass. You might feel bloated and have pain, or you might have to    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Constipation - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000214.htm

# Constipation - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Constipation is when you are passing stools less often than you normally do.
Your stool may become hard and dry, and it is difficult to pass. You might
feel bloated and have pain, or you might have to strain when you try to move
your bowels.

Below are some questions you may want to ask your health care provider to help
you take care of your constipation.

## Questions

How often should I go to the bathroom during the day? How long should I wait?
What else can I do to train my body to have more regular bowel movements?

How should I change what I eat to help with my constipation?

      * What foods will help make my stools less hard?
      * How do I get more fiber in my diet?
      * What foods can make my problem worse?
      * How much fluid or liquids should I drink during the day? 

Do any of the medicines, vitamins, herbs, or supplements I am taking cause
constipation?

What products can I buy at the store to help with my constipation? What is the
best way to take these?

      * Which ones can I take every day?
      * Which ones should I not take every day?
      * Should I take psyllium fiber (Metamucil)?
      * Can any of these items make my constipation worse? 

If my constipation or hard stools started recently, does this mean I have a
more serious medical problem?

When should I call my provider?

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about constipation

## References

Gaines M. Constipation. In: Kellerman RD, Rakel DP, eds. _Conn's Current
Therapy 2019_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:5-7.

Lembo AJ. Constipation. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 19.

## Read More

      * Constipation in infants and children
      * Crohn disease
      * Fiber
      * Irritable bowel syndrome

## Patient Instructions

      * Constipation - self-care
      * Daily bowel care program
      * Diverticulitis and diverticulosis - discharge
      * High-fiber foods
      * Multiple sclerosis - discharge
      * Stroke - discharge 

## Review Date 10/13/2018

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Constipation

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

