Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000120.htm    
                                Description: Constipation is when you do not pass stool as often as you normally do. Your stool becomes hard and dry, and it is difficult to pass.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Constipation - self-care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000120.htm

# Constipation - self-care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Constipation is when you do not pass stool as often as you normally do. Your
stool becomes hard and dry, and it is difficult to pass.

## Signs, Symptoms, and Causes

You might feel bloated and have pain, or you might have to strain when you try
to go.

Some medicines, and even some vitamins, can make you constipated. You can also
get constipated if you do not get enough fiber, drink enough water, or get
enough exercise. You can also get constipated if you put off going to the
bathroom even though you have the urge to go.

Try to get to know your normal bowel movement pattern, so that you can keep
constipation from getting worse.

## How to Relieve Constipation

Exercise regularly. Drink more water and eat more fiber. Try to walk, swim, or
do something active at least 3 or 4 times a week.

If you feel the urge to go to the bathroom, go. DO NOT wait or hold it in.

You can also train your bowels to be more regular. It may help to go to the
bathroom every day at the same time. For many people, this is after breakfast
or dinner.

## Eating When you Have Constipation

Try these things to relieve your constipation:

      * DO NOT skip meals.
      * Avoid processed or fast foods, such as white breads, pastries, doughnuts, sausage, fast-food burgers, potato chips, and French fries.

Many foods are good natural laxatives that will help you move your bowels.
High-fiber foods help move waste through your body. Add foods with fiber to
your diet slowly, because eating more fiber can cause bloating and gas.

Drink 8 to 10 cups (2 to 2.5 L) of liquids, particularly water, every day.

Ask your health care provider how much fiber to take each day. Males, females,
and different age groups all have different daily fiber needs.

Most fruits will help ease constipation. Berries, peaches, apricots, plums,
raisins, rhubarb, and prunes are just some of the fruits that may help. DO NOT
peel fruits that have edible skins, because a lot of the fiber is in the skin.

Choose breads, crackers, pasta, pancakes, and waffles made with whole grains,
or make your own. Use brown rice or wild rice instead of white rice. Eat high-
fiber cereals.

Vegetables can also add fiber to your diet. Some high-fiber vegetables are
asparagus, broccoli, corn, squash, and potatoes (with the skin still on).
Salads made with lettuce, spinach, and cabbage will also help.

Legumes (navy beans, kidney beans, chickpeas, soybeans, and lentils), peanuts,
walnuts, and almonds will also add fiber to your diet.

Other foods you can eat are:

      * Fish, chicken, turkey, or other lean meats. These do not have fiber, but they will not make constipation worse.
      * Snacks such as raisin cookies, fig bars, and popcorn.

You can also sprinkle 1 or 2 teaspoons (5 to 10 mL) of bran flakes, ground
flax seeds, wheat bran, or psyllium on foods such as yogurt, cereal, and soup.
Or, add them to your smoothie.

## Laxatives, Stool Softeners, and Other Products

You can buy stool softeners at any pharmacy. They will help you pass stool
more easily.

Your provider may prescribe a laxative to relieve your constipation. It may be
a pill or liquid. DO NOT take it if you have severe stomach pain, nausea, or
vomiting. DO NOT take it for more than 1 week. It should start to work in 2 to
5 days.

      * Only take a laxative as often as your provider recommends. Most laxatives are taken with meals and at bedtime.
      * You can mix powder laxatives with milk or fruit juice to make them taste better.
      * Always drink plenty of water (8 to 10 cups, or 2 to 2.5 L a day) when you are using laxatives.
      * Store your laxative medicine safely in a medicine cabinet, where children cannot get to it.
      * Do not take any other laxatives or medicines before talking with your provider. This includes mineral oil.

Some people get a rash, nausea, or a sore throat while taking laxatives. Women
who are pregnant or breastfeeding and children under age 6 years should NOT
take laxatives without the advice of a provider.

Bulk-forming laxatives such as Metamucil or Perdiem can help pull water into
your intestines and make your stools more bulky.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you:

      * Have not had a bowel movement in 3 days
      * Are bloated or have pain in your stomach
      * Have nausea or throw up
      * Have blood in your stool 

## References

Camilleri M. Disorders of gastrointestinal motility. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 136.

Koyle MA, Lorenzo AJ. Management of defecation disorders. In: Wein AJ,
Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds.Â _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 144.Â

Lembo AJ. Constipation. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 19.

## Read More

      * Fecal impaction
      * Kidney removal
      * Multiple sclerosis
      * Radical prostatectomy
      * Stroke

## Patient Instructions

      * Constipation - what to ask your doctor
      * Daily bowel care program
      * High-fiber foods
      * Multiple sclerosis - discharge
      * Stroke - discharge 

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Constipation

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

