Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000230.htm    
                                Description: A fecal impaction is a large lump of dry, hard stool that stays stuck in the rectum. It is most often seen in people who are constipated for a long time.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fecal impaction

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000230.htm

# Fecal impaction

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A fecal impaction is a large lump of dry, hard stool that stays stuck in the
rectum. It is most often seen in people who are constipated for a long time.

## Causes

Constipation is when you are not passing stool as often or as easily as is
normal for you. Your stool becomes hard and dry. This makes it difficult to
pass.

Fecal impaction often occurs in people who have had constipation for a long
time and have been using laxatives. The problem is even more likely when the
laxatives are suddenly stopped. The muscles of the intestines forget how to
move stool or feces on their own.

You are at more risk for chronic constipation and fecal impaction if:

      * You not move around much and spend most of your time in a chair or bed.
      * You have a disease of the brain or nervous system that damages the nerves that go to the muscles of the intestines. 

Certain drugs slow the passage of stool through the bowels:

      * Anticholinergics, which affect the interaction between nerves and muscles of the bowel
      * Medicines used to treat diarrhea, if they are taken too often
      * Narcotic pain medicine, such as methadone, codeine, and oxycontinÂ 

## Symptoms

Common symptoms include:

      * Abdominal cramping and bloating
      * Leakage of liquid or sudden episodes of watery diarrhea in someone who has chronicÂ (long-term) constipation
      * Rectal bleeding
      * Small, semi-formed stools
      * Straining when trying to pass stools

Other possible symptoms include:

      * Bladder pressure or loss of bladder control
      * Lower back pain
      * Rapid heartbeat or lightheadedness from straining to pass stool

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine your stomach area and rectum. The rectal
exam will show a hard mass of stool in the rectum.

You may need to have a colonoscopy if there has been a recent change in your
bowel habits. This is done to check for colon or rectal cancer.

## Treatment

Treatment for the condition starts with removal of the impacted stool. After
that, steps are taken to prevent future fecal impactions.

A warm mineral oil enema is often used to soften and lubricate the stool.
However, enemas alone are not enough to remove a large, hardened impaction in
most cases.

The mass may have to be broken up by hand. This is called manual removal:

      * A provider will need to insert one or two fingers into the rectum and slowly break up the mass into smaller pieces so that it can come out.
      * This process must be done in small steps to avoid causing injury to the rectum.
      * Suppositories inserted into the rectum may be given between attempts to help clear the stool. 

Surgery is rarely needed to treat a fecal impaction. An overly widened colon
(megacolon) or complete blockage of the bowel may require emergency removal of
the impaction.

Most people who have had a fecal impaction will need a bowel retraining
program. Your provider and a specially trained nurse or therapist will:

      * Take a detailed history of your diet, bowel patterns, laxative use, medicines, and medical problems
      * Examine you carefully.
      * Recommend changes in your diet, how to use laxatives and stool softeners, special exercises, lifestyle changes, and other special techniques to retrain your bowel.
      * Follow you closely to make sure the program works for you. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With treatment, the outcome is good.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Tear (ulceration) of the rectal tissue
      * Tissue death (necrosis) or rectal tissue injury 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Tell your provider if you have chronic diarrhea or fecal incontinence after a
long period of constipation. Also tell your provider if you have any of the
following symptoms:  

      * Abdominal pain and bloating
      * Blood in the stool
      * Sudden constipation with abdominal cramps, and an inability to pass gas or stool. In this case, do not take any laxatives. Call your provider right away.
      * Very thin, pencil-like stools

## Alternative Names

Impaction of the bowels; Constipation - impaction; Neurogenic bowel -
impaction

## Patient Instructions

      * Constipation - self-care

## Images

      * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
      * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Lembo AJ. Constipation. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease._ 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 19.

Markland AD. Constipation and fecal incontinence. In: Ham RJ, Sloane PD,
Warshaw GA, Potter JF, Flaherty E, eds. _Ham's Primary Care Geriatrics: A
Case-Based Approach._ 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap
24.

## Review Date 9/29/2017

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Constipation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Constipation_thumb.jpg)Constipation
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

