Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003125.htm    
                                Description: Constipation in infants and children occurs when they have hard stools or have problems passing stools. A child may have pain while passing stools or may be unable to have a bowel movement after straining    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Constipation in infants and children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003125.htm

# Constipation in infants and children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Constipation in infants and children occurs when they have hard stools or have
problems passing stools. A child may have pain while passing stools or may be
unable to have a bowel movement after straining or pushing.

## Considerations

Constipation is common in children. However, normal bowel movements are
different for each child.

In the first month, infants tend to have bowel movements about once a day.
After that, babies can go a few days or even a week between bowel movements.
It's also difficult to pass stools because their abdominal muscles are weak.
So babies tend to strain, cry, and get red in the face when they have a bowel
movement. This does not mean they are constipated. If bowel movements are
soft, then there is likely no problem.

Signs of constipation in infants and children may include:

      * Being very fussy and spitting up more often (infants)
      * Difficulty passing stools or seeming uncomfortable
      * Hard, dry stools
      * Pain when having a bowel movement
      * Belly pain and bloating
      * Large, wide stools
      * Blood on the stool or on toilet paper
      * Traces of liquid or stool in a child's underwear (a sign of fecal impaction)
      * Having less than 3 bowel movements a week (children)
      * Moving their body in different positions or clenching their buttocks

Make sure your infant or child has a problem before treating constipation:

      * Some children do not have a bowel movement every day.
      * Also, some healthy children always have very soft stools.
      * Other children have firm stools, but are able to pass them without problems. 

## Causes

Constipation occurs when the stool remains in the colon for too long. Too much
water gets absorbed by the colon, leaving hard, dry stools.

Constipation may be caused by:

      * Ignoring the urge to use the toilet
      * Not eating enough fiber
      * Not drinking enough fluids
      * Switching to solid foods or from breast milk to formula (infants)
      * Changes in situation, such as travel, starting school, or stressful events

Medical causes of constipation may include:

      * Diseases of the bowel, such as those that affect the bowel muscles or nerves
      * Other medical conditions that affect the bowel
      * Use of certain medicines

Children may ignore the urge to have a bowel movement because:

      * They are not ready for toilet training
      * They are learning to control their bowel movements
      * They have had previous painful bowel movements and want to avoid them
      * They don't want to use a school or public toilet

## Home Care

Lifestyle changes can help your child avoid constipation. These changes can
also be used to treat it.

For infants:

      * Give your baby extra water or juice during the day in between feedings. Juice can help bring water to the colon.
      * Over 2 months old: Try 2 to 4 ounces (59Â to 118 mL) of fruit juice (grape, pear, apple, cherry, or prune) twice a day.
      * Over 4 months old: If the baby has started to eat solid foods, try baby foods with high-fiber content such as peas, beans, apricots, prunes, peaches, pears, plums, and spinach twice a day.

For children:

      * Drink plenty of fluids each day. Your child's health care provider can tell you how much.
      * Eat more fruits and vegetables and foods high in fiber, such asÂ whole grains.
      * Avoid certain foods such as cheese, fast food, prepared and processed foods, meat, and ice cream.
      * Stop toilet training if your child becomes constipated. Resume after your child is no longer constipated.
      * Teach older children to use the toilet right after eating a meal.

Stool softeners (such as those containing docusate sodium) may help for older
children. Bulk laxatives such as psyllium may help add fluid and bulk to the
stool. Suppositories or gentle laxatives may help your child have regular
bowel movements. Electrolyte solutions like Miralax can also be effective.

Some children may need enemas or prescription laxatives. These methods should
be used only if fiber, fluids, and stool softeners do not provide enough
relief.

Do NOT give laxatives or enemas to children without first asking your
provider.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your child's provider right away if:

      * An infant (except those who are only breastfed) goes 3 days without a stool and is vomiting or irritable

Also call your child's provider if:

      * An infant younger than 2 months is constipated
      * Non-breastfeeding infants go 3 days without having a bowel movement (callÂ right awayÂ if there is vomiting or irritability)
      * A child is holding back bowel movements to resist toilet training
      * There is blood in the stools

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your child's provider will perform a physical exam. This may include a rectal
exam.

The provider may ask you questions about your child's diet, symptoms, and
bowel habits.

The following tests may help find the cause of constipation:

      * Blood tests such as a complete blood count (CBC)
      * X-rays of the abdomen

## Alternative Names

Irregularity of bowels; Lack of regular bowel movements

## Patient Instructions

      * Constipation - what to ask your doctor
      * High-fiber foods

## Images

      * ![Sources of fiber](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19691t.jpg)Sources of fiber
      * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Kwan KY. Abdominal pain. In: Olympia RP, O'Neill RM, Silvis ML, eds. _Urgent
Care Medicine Secrets_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 19.

National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases. Constipation
in children. www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/digestive-
diseases/constipation-children. Updated May 2018. Accessed August 19, 2018.

Nurko S, Zimmerman LA. Evaluation and treatment of constipation in children
and adolescents. _Am Fam Physician_. 2014;90(2):82-90 PMID: 25077577
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25077577.

Sreedharan R, Liacouras CA. Major symptoms and signs of digestive tract
disorders. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 306.

## Review Date 8/5/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Constipation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Constipation_thumb.jpg)Constipation
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

