Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001232.htm    
                                Description: Corns and calluses are thick layers of skin. They are caused by repeated pressure or friction at the spot where the corn or callus develops.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Corns and calluses

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001232.htm

# Corns and calluses

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Corns and calluses are thick layers of skin. They are caused by repeated
pressure or friction at the spot where the corn or callus develops.

## Causes

Corns and calluses are caused by pressure or friction on skin. A corn is
thickened skin on the top or side of a toe. Most of the time it is caused by
bad-fitting shoes. A callus is thickened skin on your hands or the soles of
your feet.

The thickening of the skin is a protective reaction. For example, farmers and
rowers get calluses on their hands that prevent blisters from forming. People
with bunions often develop a callus over the bunion because it rubs against
the shoe.

Corns and calluses are not serious problems.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Skin is thick and hardened.
      * Skin may be flaky and dry.
      * Hardened, thick skin areas are found on hands, feet, or other areas that may be rubbed or pressed.
      * The affected areas can be painful and may bleed. 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will make the diagnosis after looking at your skin.
In most cases, tests are not needed.

## Treatment

Preventing friction is often the only treatment needed.

To treat corns:

      * If poor fitting shoes are causing the corn, changing to shoes with a better fit will help get rid of the problem most of the time.
      * Protect the corn with a doughnut-shaped corn pad while it is healing. You can buy these at most drug stores.

To treat calluses:

      * Calluses often occur due to excess pressure placed on the skin because of another problem such as bunions or hammertoes. Proper treatment of any underlying condition should prevent the calluses from returning.
      * Wear gloves to protect your hands during activities that cause friction (such as gardening and weight lifting) to help prevent calluses.

If an infection or ulcer occurs in an area of a callus or corn, the tissue may
need to be removed by a provider. You may need to take antibiotics.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Corns and calluses are rarely serious. They should improve with proper
treatment and not cause long-term problems.

## Possible Complications

Complications of corns and calluses are rare. People with diabetes are prone
to ulcers and infections and should regularly examine their feet to identify
any problems right away. Such foot injuries need medical attention.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Check your feet carefully if you have diabetes or numbness in the feet or
toes.

Otherwise, the problem should resolve with changing to better-fitting shoes or
wearing gloves.

Call your provider if:

      * You have diabetes and notice problems with your feet.
      * You think your corn or callus is not getting better with treatment.
      * You have continued symptoms of pain, redness, warmth, or drainage from the area. 

## Alternative Names

Calluses and corns

## Images

      * ![Corns and calluses](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19657t.jpg)Corns and calluses
      * ![Skin layers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8912t.jpg)Skin layers

## References

American Diabetes Association. Standard of medical care in diabetes-2019
abridged for primary care providers. _Clin Diabetes_. 2019;37(1):11-34. PMID:
30705493. www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30705493.

Murphy GA. Lesser toe abnormalities. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds.
_Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 83.

Smith ML. Environmental and sports-related skin diseases. In: Bolognia JL,
Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 88.

## Review Date 5/13/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Corns and
Calluses](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CornsandCalluses_thumb.jpg)Corns and
Calluses _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

