Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001605.htm    
                                Description: Prader-Willi syndrome is a disease that is present from birth (congenital). It affects many parts of the body. People with this condition feel hungry all the time and become obese. They also have poor    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Prader-Willi syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001605.htm

# Prader-Willi syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Prader-Willi syndrome is a disease that is present from birth (congenital). It
affects many parts of the body. People with this condition feel hungry all the
time and become obese. They also have poor muscle tone, reduced mental
ability, and underdeveloped sex organs.

## Causes

Prader-Willi syndrome is caused by a missing gene on chromosome 15. Normally,
parents each pass down a copy of this chromosome. The defect can occur in a
couple of ways:

      * The father's genes are missing on chromosome 15
      * There are defects or problems with the father's genes on chromosome 15
      * There are two copies of the mother's chromosome 15 and none from the father

These genetic changes occur randomly. People who have this syndrome usually do
not have a family history of the condition.

## Symptoms

Signs of Prader-Willi syndrome may be seen at birth.

      * Newborns are often small and floppy
      * Male infants may have undescended testicles 

Other symptoms may include:

      * Trouble feeding as an infant, with poor weight gain
      * Almond-shaped eyes
      * Delayed motor development
      * Narrowed head at the temples
      * Rapid weight gain
      * Short stature
      * Slow mental development
      * Very small hands and feet in comparison to the child's body 

Children have an intense craving for food. They will do almost anything to get
food, including hording. This can result in rapid weight gain and morbid
obesity. Morbid obesity may lead to:

      * Type 2 diabetes
      * High blood pressure
      * Joint and lung problems 

## Exams and Tests

Genetic testing is available to test children for Prader-Willi syndrome.

As the child grows older, lab tests may show signs of morbid obesity, such as:

      * Abnormal glucose tolerance
      * High insulin level in the blood
      * Low oxygen level in the blood

Children with this syndrome may not respond to luteinizing hormone releasing
factor. This is a sign that their sex organs are not producing hormones. There
also may be signs of right-sided heart failure and knee and hip problems.

## Treatment

Obesity is the greatest threat to health. Limiting calories will control
weight gain. It is also important to control a child's environment to prevent
access to food. The child's family, neighbors, and school must work together,
because the child will try to get food wherever possible. Exercise can help a
child with Prader-Willi syndrome gain muscle.

Growth hormone is used to treat Prader-Willi syndrome. It can help:

      * Build strength and agility
      * Improve height
      * Increase muscle mass and decrease body fat
      * Improve weight distribution
      * Increase stamina
      * Increase bone density

Taking growth hormone therapy may lead to sleep apnea. A child who takes
hormone therapy needs to be monitored for sleep apnea.

Low levels of sex hormones may be corrected at puberty with hormone
replacement.

Mental health and behavioral counseling are also important. This can help with
common problems such as skin picking and compulsive behaviors. Sometimes,
medicine may be needed.

## Support Groups

The following organizations can provide resources and support:

      * Prader-Willi Syndrome Association -- www.pwsausa.org
      * Foundation for Prader-Willi Research -- www.fpwr.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The child will need the right education forÂ their IQ level. The child will
also need speech, physical, and occupational therapy as early as possible.
Controlling weight will allow for a much more comfortable and healthy life.

## Possible Complications

Complications of Prader-Willi can include:

      * Type 2 diabetes
      * Right-sided heart failure
      * Bone (orthopedic) problems 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if your child has symptoms of this condition.
The disorder is frequently suspected at birth.

## References

Cooke DW, Divall SA, Radovick S. Normal and aberrant growth in children. In:
Melmed S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 24.

Escobar O, Viswanathan P, Witchel SF. Pediatric endocrinology. In: Zitelli,
BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric
Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 9.

## Review Date 5/20/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Prader-Willi Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Prader-
WilliSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Prader-Willi Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

