Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000193.htm    
                                Description: Fiber is a substance found in plants. Dietary fiber, the kind you eat, is found in fruits, vegetables, and grains. Your body cannot digest fiber, so it passes through your intestines without being absorbed    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

High-fiber foods

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000193.htm

# High-fiber foods

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fiber is a substance found in plants. Dietary fiber, the kind you eat, is
found in fruits, vegetables, and grains. Your body cannot digest fiber, so it
passes through your intestines without being absorbed much.

## Function

Dietary fiber adds bulk to your diet. Because it makes you feel full faster
and for longer, it can help you with weight loss efforts or to maintain a
healthy weight.

High fiber diets can also help with constipation.

## What to Expect at Home

Slowly increase the amount of fiber in your diet. If you have bloating or gas,
you have probably eaten too much and need to reduce the amount of fiber you
eat for a few days. Drink plenty of fluids. When you increase fiber in your
diet, you also need to get enough fluids. Not getting enough fluids may make
constipation worse instead of better. Ask your health care provider or a
dietitian how much fluid you should be getting each day.

The daily recommended intake (DRI) of fiber for adults 19 to 50 years old is
38 grams a day for men and 25 grams a day for women. To get more fiber into
your diet, eat different types of foods, such as:

      * Fruits
      * Vegetables
      * Whole grains 

Read food labels carefully to see how much fiber they have. Fiber is found
naturally in nutritious foods. If your diet is balanced, you likely do not
need a fiber supplement. Whole wheat products have more fiber than refined
grains. Choose foods that have higher amounts of fiber, such as whole-wheat
bread versus white bread. Try to eat foods that are naturally high in fiber.
Foods that have added fiber and fiber supplements do not always have some of
the benefits of fiber, such as making you feel full.

## Vegetables, Legumes, and Nuts

Vegetables are a good source of fiber. Eat more:

      * Lettuce, Swiss chard, raw carrots, and spinach
      * Tender cooked vegetables, such as asparagus, beets, mushrooms, turnips, and pumpkin
      * Baked potatoes and sweet potatoes with skin
      * Broccoli, artichokes, squashes, and string beans

You can also get more fiber by eating:

      * Legumes, such as lentils, black beans, split peas, kidney beans, lima beans, and chickpeas
      * Nuts and seeds, such as sunflower seeds, almonds, pistachios, and pecans 

## Fruits

Fruits are another good source of fiber. Eat more:

      * Apples and bananas
      * Peaches and pears
      * Tangerines, prunes, and berries
      * Figs and other dried fruits

## Grains

Grains are another important source of dietary fiber. Eat more:

      * Hot cereals, such as oatmeal and farina
      * Whole-grain breads
      * Brown rice
      * Popcorn
      * High-fiber cereals, such as bran, shredded wheat, and puffed wheat
      * Whole-wheat pastas
      * Bran muffins 

## Alternative Names

Dietary fiber - self-care; Constipation - fiber

## Images

      * ![Sources of fiber](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19691t.jpg)Sources of fiber

## References

Dahl WJ, Stewart ML. Position of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics:
health implications of dietary fiber. _J Acad Nutr Diet_.
2015;115(11):1861-1870. PMID: 26514720 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26514720.

Grodner M, Escott-Stump S, Dorner S. Carbohydrates. In: Grodner M, Escott-
Stump S, Dorner S, eds. _Nutritional Foundations and Clinical Applications_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Mosby; 2016:chap 5.

## Read More

      * Constipation in infants and children
      * Diverticulitis
      * Fiber

## Patient Instructions

      * Constipation - self-care
      * Constipation - what to ask your doctor
      * Diverticulitis and diverticulosis - discharge
      * Diverticulitis - what to ask your doctor 
      * How to read food labels

## Review Date 7/14/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CNSC, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Dietary Fiber
      * How to Lower Cholesterol with Diet

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

