Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002470.htm    
                                Description: Fiber is a substance foundÂ in plants. Dietary fiber, which is the type of fiber you can eat,Â is found in fruits, vegetables, andÂ grains. It is an important part of a healthy diet.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fiber

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002470.htm

# Fiber

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fiber is a substance foundÂ in plants. Dietary fiber, which is the type of
fiber you can eat,Â is found in fruits, vegetables, andÂ grains. It is an
important part of a healthy diet.

## Function

Dietary fiber adds bulk to your diet. Because it makes you feel full faster,
it can help with weight control. Fiber aids digestion andÂ helps prevent
constipation. It is sometimes used for the treatment of diverticulosis,
diabetes, and heart disease.

## Food Sources

There are two forms of fiber: soluble and insoluble.

Soluble fiber attracts water and turns to gel during digestion. This slows
digestion. Soluble fiber is found in oat bran, barley, nuts, seeds, beans,
lentils, peas, and some fruits and vegetables. Research has shown that soluble
fiber lowers cholesterol, which can help prevent heart disease.

Insoluble fiber is found in foods such as wheat bran, vegetables, and whole
grains. It appears to speed the passage of foods through the stomach and
intestines and adds bulk to the stool.

## Side Effects

Eating a large amount of fiber in a short period of time can cause intestinal
gas (flatulence), bloating, and abdominal cramps. This problem often goes away
once the natural bacteria in the digestive system get used to the increase in
fiber. Adding fiber to the diet slowly, instead of all at one time, can help
reduce gas or diarrhea.

Too much fiber may interfere with the absorption of minerals such as iron,
zinc, magnesium, and calcium. In most cases, this is not a cause for too much
concern because high-fiber foods tend to be rich in minerals.

## Recommendations

On average, Americans now eat aboutÂ 16 grams of fiber per day. The
recommendation for older children, adolescents, and adults is to eat 21Â to 38
grams of fiberÂ each day. Younger children will not be able to eat enough
calories to achieve this amount, but it is a good idea to introduce whole
grains, fresh fruits, and other high-fiber foods.

To ensure that you get enough fiber, eat a variety of foods, including:

      * Cereals
      * Dried beans and peas
      * Fruits
      * Vegetables
      * Whole grains 

Add fiber gradually over a period of a few weeks to avoid stomach distress.
Water helps fiber pass through the digestive system. Drink plenty of fluids
(about 8 glasses of water or noncaloric fluid a day).

Taking the peels off fruits and vegetablesÂ reduces the amount of fiber you
get from the food. Fiber-rich foods offer health benefitsÂ when eatenÂ rawÂ or
cooked.

## Alternative Names

Diet - fiber; Roughage; Bulk; Constipation - fiber

## Patient Instructions

      * Constipation - what to ask your doctor
      * High-fiber foods

## Images

      * ![Sources of fiber](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19691t.jpg)Sources of fiber

## References

Hoy MK, Goldman JD. Fiber intake of the US population. What we eat in America,
NHANES 2009-2010. Food Surveys Research Group. Dietary Data Brief No. 12.
September 2014.
www.ars.usda.gov/ARSUserFiles/80400530/pdf/DBrief/12_fiber_intake_0910.pdf.
Accessed July 25, 2018.

Heimburger DC. Nutrition's interface with health and disease. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 213.

Thompson M, Noel MB. Nutrition and family medicine. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine._ 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 37.

US Department of Health and Human Services. US Department of Agriculture.
2015-2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans. 8th ed.
health.gov/dietaryguidelines/2015/guidelines/. Accessed July 25, 2018.

## Review Date 6/28/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Fibra en la
dieta](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DietaryFiber_thumb.jpg)Dietary Fiber
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

