Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001021.htm    
                                Description: Hyphema is blood in the front area (anterior chamber) of the eye. The blood collects behind the cornea and in front of the iris.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hyphema

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001021.htm

# Hyphema

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hyphema is blood in the front area (anterior chamber) of the eye. The blood
collects behind the cornea and in front of the iris.

## Causes

Hyphema is most often caused by trauma to the eye. Other causes of bleeding in
the front chamber of the eye include:

      * Blood vessel abnormality
      * Cancer of the eye
      * Severe inflammation of the iris
      * Advanced diabetes
      * Blood disorders such as sickle cell anemia

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Bleeding in the anterior chamber of the eye
      * Eye pain
      * Light sensitivity
      * Vision abnormalities

You may not be able to see a small hyphema when looking at your eye in the
mirror. With a total hyphema, the collection of blood will block the view of
the iris and pupil.

## Exams and Tests

You may need the following tests and exams:

      * Eye exam
      * Intraocular pressure measurement (tonometry)
      * Ultrasound testing 

## Treatment

Treatment may not be needed in mild cases. The blood is absorbed in a few
days.

If bleeding comes back (most often in 3 to 5 days), the likely outcome of the
condition will be much worse. The health care provider may recommend the
following to cut down the chance that there will be more bleeding:

      * Bed rest
      * Eye patching
      * Sedating medicines 

You may need to use eye drops to decrease the inflammation or lower the
pressure in your eye.

The eye doctor may need to remove the blood surgically, especially if pressure
in the eye is very high or the blood is slow to absorb again. You may need to
stay in a hospital.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome depends upon the amount of injury to the eye. People with sickle
cell disease are more likely to have eye complications and must be watched
closely. People with diabetes will probably need laser treatment for the
problem.

Severe vision loss can occur.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Acute glaucoma
      * Impaired vision
      * Recurring bleeding 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you notice blood in the front of the eye or if you have
an eye injury. You will need to be examined and treated by an eye doctor right
away, especially if you have decreased vision.

## Prevention

Many eye injuries can be prevented by wearing safety goggles or other
protective eye wear. Always wear eye protection while playing sports, such as
racquetball, or contact sports, such as basketball.

## Images

      * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye

## References

Lin TKY, Tingey DP, Shingleton BJ. Glaucoma associated with ocular trauma. In:
Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 10.17.

Olitsky SE, Hug D, Plummer LS, Stahl ED, Ariss MM, Lindquist TP. Injuries to
the eye. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 635.

Recchia FM, Sternberg P. Surgery for ocular trauma: principles and techniques
for treatment. In: Schachat AP, Sadda SVR, Hinton DR, Wilkinson CP, Wiedemann
P, eds. _Ryan's Retina_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 114.

## Review Date 9/30/2018

Updated by: Audrey Tai, DO, MS, Assistant Clinical Professor (Voluntary),
University of California - Irvine, Irvine, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eye Injuries](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeInjuries_thumb.jpg)Eye
Injuries _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

