Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000054.htm    
                                Description: Eye emergencies include cuts, scratches, objects in the eye, burns, chemical exposure, and blunt injuries to the eye or eyelid. Certain eye infections and other medical conditions, such as blood clots    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Eye emergencies

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000054.htm

# Eye emergencies

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Eye emergencies include cuts, scratches, objects in the eye, burns, chemical
exposure, and blunt injuries to the eye or eyelid. Certain eye infections and
other medical conditions, such as blood clots or glaucoma, may also need
medical care right away. Since the eye is easily damaged, any of these
conditions can lead to vision loss if untreated.

![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1094.jpg)

## Considerations

It is important to get medical attention for eye or eyelid injuries and
problems. Eye problems (such as a painful red eye or vision loss) that are not
due to injury also need urgent medical attention.

![Corneal injury](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200050t.gif)Watch
this video about:Corneal injury

## Causes

Eye emergencies include any of the following:

TRAUMA

      * A black eye is usually caused by direct trauma to the eye or face. The bruise is caused by bleeding under the skin. The tissue around the eye turns black and blue, gradually becoming purple, green, and yellow over several days. The abnormal color disappears within 2 weeks. Swelling of the eyelid and tissue around the eye may also occur.
      * Certain types of skull fractures can cause bruising around the eyes, even without direct injury to the eye.
      * Sometimes, serious damage to the eye itself occurs from the pressure of a swollen eyelid or face. A hyphema is blood inside the front of the eye. Trauma is a common cause and is often from a direct hit to the eye from a ball.

CHEMICAL INJURY

      * A chemical injury to the eye can be caused by a work-related accident. It can also be caused by common household products such as cleaning solutions, garden chemicals, solvents, or other types of chemicals. Fumes and aerosols can also cause chemical burns.
      * With acid burns, the haze on the cornea often clears and there is a good chance of recovery.
      * Alkaline substances such as lime, lye, drain cleaners, and sodium hydroxide found in refrigeration equipment may cause permanent damage to the cornea.
      * It is important to flush out the eye with large amounts of clean water or salt water (saline). This kind of injury needs medical care right away.

FOREIGN OBJECT IN THE EYE AND CORNEAL INJURIES

      * The cornea is the clear (transparent) tissue covering the front of the eye.
      * Dust, sand, and other debris can easily enter the eye. Persistent pain, sensitivity to light, and redness are signs that treatment is needed.
      * A foreign body in the eye may harmÂ vision if the object enters the eye itself or damages the cornea or lens. Foreign bodies thrown at high speed by machining, grinding, or hammering metal have the highest risk of injuring the eye.

An injury to the eyelid may be a sign of a severe injury to the eye itself.

## Symptoms

Depending on the type of injury, any of the following symptoms may be present:

      * Bleeding or other discharge from or around the eye
      * Bruising
      * Decreased vision
      * Double vision
      * Eye pain
      * Headache
      * Itchy eyes
      * Loss of vision, total or partial, one eye or bothÂ 
      * Pupils of unequal size
      * Redness -- bloodshot appearance
      * Sensation of something in the eye
      * Sensitivity to light
      * Stinging or burning in the eye

## First Aid

Take prompt action and follow the steps below if you or someone else has an
eye injury.

SMALL OBJECT ON THE EYE OR EYELID

The eye will often clear itself of tiny objects, like eyelashes and sand,
through blinking and tearing. If not, don't rub the eye or squeeze the
eyelids. Then go ahead and examine the eye.

      1. Wash your hands with soap and water.
      2. Examine the eye in a well-lighted area. Do not press on the eye.
      3. To find the object, have the person look up and down, then from side to side.
      4. If you cannot find the object, grasp the lower eyelid and gently pull it down to look under the lower eyelid. To look under the upper lid, place a clean cotton swab on the outside of the upper lid. Grasp the eyelashes and gently fold the lid over the cotton swab.
      5. If the object is on an eyelid, try to gently flush it out with clean water. If that does not work, try touching a second cotton swab to the object to remove it.
      6. If the object is on the surface of the eye, try gently rinsing the eye with clean water. If available, use an eye dropper or a bottle of eye drops, such as artificial tears, positioned above the outer corner of the eye. Do not touch the eye itself with the dropper or bottle tip. 

A scratchy feeling or other minor discomfort may continue after removing
eyelashes and other tiny objects. This should go away within a day or two. If
discomfort or blurred vision continues, get medical help.

OBJECT STUCK OR EMBEDDED IN THE EYE

      1. Leave the object in place. Do not try to remove the object. Do not touch it or apply any pressure to it.
      2. Calm and reassure the person.
      3. Wash your hands with soap and water.
      4. Bandage both eyes. Covering both eyes helps prevent eye movement. If the object is large, place a clean paper cup or something similar over the injured eye and tape it in place. This prevents the object from being pressed on, which can injure the eye further. If the object is small, bandage both eyes.
      5. Get medical help right away. Do not delay. 

CHEMICAL IN THE EYE

      1. Flush with cool tap water right away. Turn the person's head so the injured eye is down and to the side. Holding the eyelid open, allow running water from the faucet to flush the eye for 15 minutes.
      2. If both eyes are affected, or if the chemicals are also on other parts of the body, have the person take a shower.
      3. If the person is wearing contact lenses and the lenses did not flush out from the running water, have the person try to remove the contacts after the flushing.
      4. Keep flushing the eye with clean water or saline solution for at least 15 minutes.
      5. Seek medical help right away. Do not delay. 

EYE CUT, SCRATCH, OR BLOW

      1. Gently apply a clean cold compress to the eye to reduce swelling and help stop bleeding. Do not apply pressure to control bleeding.
      2. If blood is pooling in the eye, cover both eyes with a clean cloth or sterile dressing.
      3. Seek medical help right away. Do not delay. 

EYELID CUTS

      1. Carefully wash the eyelid. If the cut is bleeding, apply gentle pressure with a clean, dry cloth until the bleeding stops. Do not press on the eyeball. This is because the cut may go all the way through the eyelid, so there could also be a cut in the eyeball. It is usually safe to press on the bone around the eye.
      2. Cover with a clean dressing.
      3. Place a cold compress on the dressing to reduce pain and swelling.
      4. Seek medical help right away. Do not delay. 

## DO NOT

      * Do not press or rub an injured eye.
      * Do not remove contact lenses unless rapid swelling is occurring, there is a chemical injury and the contacts did not come out with the water flush, or you cannot get prompt medical help.
      * Do not attempt to remove a foreign body or any object that appears to be embedded (stuck) in any part of the eye. Get medical help right away.
      * Do not use cotton swabs, tweezers, or anything else on the eye itself. Cotton swabs should only be used on the inside or outside of the eyelid.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Seek emergency medical care if:

      * There appears to be a scratch, cut, or something has gone into (penetrated) the eyeball.
      * Any chemical gets into the eye.
      * The eye is painful and red.
      * Nausea or headache occur with the eye pain (this may be a symptom of glaucoma or stroke).
      * There is any change in vision (such as blurred or double vision).
      * There is uncontrollable bleeding.

## Prevention

Supervise children carefully. Teach them how to be safe.

Always wear protective eye gear when:

      * Using power tools, hammers, or other striking tools
      * Working with toxic chemicals
      * Cycling or when in windy and dusty areas
      * Participating in sports that have a high likelihood of getting hit in the eye with a ball, such as indoor racket sports

## Images

      * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye
      * ![First aid kit](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17065t.jpg)First aid kit

## References

Guluma K, Lee JE. Ophthalmology. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice._ 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 61.

Muth CC. Eye emergencies. _JAMA_. 2017;318(7):676.
jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2648633. Updated August 15, 2017.
Accessed May 7, 2019.

Vrcek I, Somogyi M, Durairaj VD. Evaluation and management of periorbital soft
tissue trauma. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology._ 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 12.9.

## Review Date 5/1/2019

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eye Injuries](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeInjuries_thumb.jpg)Eye
Injuries _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

