Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000949.htm    
                                Description: Opiates or opioids are drugs used to treat pain. The term narcotic refers to either type of drug.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Opiate and opioid withdrawal

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000949.htm

# Opiate and opioid withdrawal

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Opiates or opioids are drugs used to treat pain. The term narcotic refers to
either type of drug.

If you stop or cut back on these drugs after heavy use of a few weeks or more,
you will have a number of symptoms. This is called withdrawal.

## Causes

In 2016 in the United States, about 948,000 people used heroin during the past
year. In the same year, about 11.5 million people were nonmedical users of
narcotic pain relievers. This means they were taking narcotics that were not
prescribed to them. Narcotic pain relievers include:

      * Codeine
      * Heroin
      * Hydrocodone (Vicodin)
      * Hydromorphone (Dilaudid)
      * Methadone
      * Meperidine (Demerol)
      * Morphine
      * Oxycodone (Percocet or Oxycontin)

These drugs can cause physical dependence. This means that a person relies on
the drug to prevent withdrawal symptoms. Over time, more of the drug is needed
for the same effect. This is called drug tolerance.

How long it takes to become physically dependent varies with each person.

When the person stops taking the drugs, the body needs time to recover. This
causes withdrawal symptoms. Withdrawal from opiates can occur any time long-
term use is stopped or cut back.

## Symptoms

Early symptoms of withdrawal include:

      * Agitation
      * Anxiety 
      * Muscle aches 
      * Increased tearing 
      * Insomnia 
      * Runny nose 
      * Sweating 
      * Yawning 

Late symptoms of withdrawal include:

      * Abdominal cramping 
      * Diarrhea 
      * Dilated pupils 
      * Goose bumps 
      * Nausea 
      * Vomiting 

These symptoms are very uncomfortable but are not life threatening. Symptoms
usually start within 12 hours of last heroin usage and within 30 hours of last
methadone exposure.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions about
your medical history and drug use.

Urine or blood tests to screen for drugs can confirm opiate use.

Other testing will depend on your provider's concern for other problems. Tests
may include:

      * Blood chemistries and liver function tests such as CHEM-20
      * CBC (complete blood count, measures red and white blood cells, and platelets, which help blood to clot)
      * Chest x-ray
      * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
      * Testing for hepatitis C, HIV, and tuberculosis (TB), as many people who abuse opiates also have these diseases

## Treatment

Withdrawal from these drugs on your own can be very hard and may be dangerous.
Treatment most often involves medicines, counseling, and support. You and your
provider will discuss your care and treatment goals.

Withdrawal can take place in a number of settings:

      * At-home, using medicines and a strong support system. (This method is difficult, and withdrawal should be done very slowly.)
      * Using facilities set up to help people with detoxification (detox).
      * In a regular hospital, if symptoms are severe. 

MEDICINES

 **Methadone** relieves withdrawal symptoms and helps with detox. It is also
used as a long-term maintenance medicine for opioid dependence. After a period
of maintenance, the dose may be decreased slowly over a long time. This helps
reduce the intensity of withdrawal symptoms. Some people stay on methadone for
years.

 **Buprenorphine** (Subutex) treats withdrawal from opiates, and it can
shorten the length of detox. It may also be used for long-term maintenance,
like methadone. Buprenorphine may be combined with Naloxone (Bunavail,
Suboxone, Zubsolv), which helps prevent dependence and misuse.

 **Clonidine** is used to help reduce anxiety, agitation, muscle aches,
sweating, runny nose, and cramping. It does not help reduce cravings.

Other medicines can:

      * Treat vomiting and diarrhea
      * Help with sleep 

**Naltrexone** can help prevent relapse. It is available in pill form or as an
injection. It also, however, can bring about a sudden and severe withdrawal if
taken while opioids are still in your system.

People who go through withdrawal over and over should be treated with long-
term methadone or buprenorphine maintenance.

Most people need long-term treatment after detox. This can include:

      * Self-help groups, like Narcotics Anonymous or SMART Recovery
      * Outpatient counseling
      * Intensive outpatient treatment (day hospitalization)
      * Inpatient treatment 

Anyone going through detox for opiates should be checked for depression and
other mental illnesses. Treating these disorders can reduce the risk for
relapse. Antidepressant medicines should be given as needed.

## Support Groups

Support groups, such as Narcotics Anonymous and SMART Recovery, can be
enormously helpful to people addicted to opiates:

      * Narcotics Anonymous -- www.na.org
      * SMART Recovery -- www.smartrecovery.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Withdrawal from opiates is painful, but usually not life threatening.

## Possible Complications

Complications include vomiting and breathing in stomach contents into the
lungs. This is called aspiration, and it can cause lung infection. Vomiting
and diarrhea can cause dehydration and body chemical and mineral (electrolyte)
disturbances.

The biggest complication is returning to drug use. Most opiate overdose deaths
occur in people who have just detoxed. Withdrawal reduces the person's
tolerance to the drug, so those who have just gone through withdrawal can
overdose on a much smaller dose than they used to take.  

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you are using or withdrawing from opiates.

## Alternative Names

Withdrawal from opioids; Dopesickness; Substance use - opiate withdrawal;
Substance abuse - opiate withdrawal; Drug abuse - opiate withdrawal; Narcotic
abuse - opiate withdrawal; Methadone - opiate withdrawal; Pain medicines -
opiate withdrawal; Heroin abuse - opiate withdrawal; Morphine abuse - opiate
withdrawal; Opoid withdrawal; Meperidine - opiate withdrawal; Dilaudid -
opiate withdrawal; Oxycodone - opiate withdrawal; Percocet - opiate
withdrawal; Oxycontin - opiate withdrawal; Hydrocodone - opiate withdrawal;
Detox - opiates; Detoxification - opiates

## References

Kampman K, Jarvis M. American Society of Addiction Medicine (ASAM) National
Practice Guideline for the Use of Medications in the Treatment of Addiction
Involving Opioid Use. _J Addict Med_. 2015;9(5):358-367. PMID: 26406300
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26406300.

Nikolaides JK, Thompson TM. Opioids. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 156.

Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) website.
Key substance use and mental health indicators in the United States: results
from the 2016 National Survey on Drug Use and Health.
www.samhsa.gov/data/sites/default/files/NSDUH-FFR1-2016/NSDUH-FFR1-2016.htm.
Updated September 2017. Accessed July 18, 2018.

## Review Date 5/5/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Heroin](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Heroin_thumb.jpg)Heroin _Read more_

![Opioid Abuse and
Addiction](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OpioidAbuseandAddiction_thumb.jpg)Opioid
Misuse and Addiction _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

