Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000948.htm    
                                Description:  Opioid-based drugs include morphine, oxycodone, and synthetic (man-made) opioid narcotics, such as fentanyl. They are prescribed to treat pain after surgery or a dental procedure. Sometimes, they are    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Opioid intoxication

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000948.htm

# Opioid intoxication

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Opioid-based drugs include morphine, oxycodone, and synthetic (man-made)
opioid narcotics, such as fentanyl. They are prescribed to treat pain after
surgery or a dental procedure. Sometimes, they are used to treat severe cough
or diarrhea. The illegal drug heroin is also an opioid. When abused, opioids
cause a person to feel relaxed and intensely happy (euphoria). In short, the
drugs are used to get high.

Opioid intoxication is a condition in which you're not only high from using
the drug, but you also have body-wide symptoms that can make you ill and
impaired.

## Causes

Opioid intoxication may occur when a health care provider prescribes an
opioid, but:

      * The provider doesn't know the person is already taking another opioid at home.
      * The person has a health problem, such as a liver or kidney problem, that may easily result in intoxication.
      * The provider prescribes a sleep medicine (sedative) in addition to the opioid.
      * The provider doesn't know that another provider already prescribed an opioid.

In people who use opioids to get high, intoxication may be caused by:

      * Using too much of the drug
      * Using an opioid with certain other drugs, such as sleep medicines or alcohol
      * Taking the opioid in ways not normally used, such as smoked or inhaled through the nose (snorted)

## Symptoms

Symptoms depend on how much of the drug is taken.

Symptoms of opioid intoxication can include:

      * Altered mental status, such as confusion, delirium, or decreased awareness or responsiveness
      * Breathing problems (breathing may slow and eventually stop)
      * Extreme sleepiness or loss of alertness
      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Small pupils 

## Exams and Tests

Tests that are ordered depend on the provider's concern for additional medical
problems. Tests may include:

      * Blood tests
      * CT scan of the brain, if the person is having seizures or might have a head injury
      * ECG (electrocardiogram) to measure electrical activity in the heart
      * Chest x-ray toÂ check for pneumonia
      * Toxicology (poison) screening

## Treatment

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms will be
treated as appropriate. The person may receive:

      * Breathing support, including oxygen, or a tube that goes through the mouth into the lungs and attachment to a breathing machine
      * IV fluids
      * Medicine called naloxone (Evzio, Narcan) to block the effect of the opioid on the central nervous system
      * Other medicines as needed 

Since the effect of the naloxone is often short, the health care team will
monitor the patient for 4 to 6 hours in the emergency department. People with
moderate to severe intoxications will likely be admitted to the hospital for
24 to 48 hours.

A mental health evaluation is needed if the person is suicidal.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Many factors determine the short- and long-term outcome after opioid
intoxication. Some of these are:

      * The degree of poisoning, for example, if the person stopped breathing, and for how long
      * How often the drugs are used
      * Effect of impurities mixed in with illegal substances
      * Injuries that occur as a result of the drug use
      * Underlying medical conditions 

## Possible Complications

Health problems that may occur include any of the following:

      * Permanent lung damage
      * Seizures, tremors
      * Reduced ability to think clearly
      * Unsteadiness and difficulty walking
      * Infections or even permanent damage of the organs as a result of injection use of the drug

## Alternative Names

Intoxication - opioids; Opioid abuse - intoxication; Opioid use - intoxication

## References

Aronson JK. Opioid receptor agonists. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side
Effects of Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:348-380.

National Institute on Drug Abuse website. Opioids. www.drugabuse.gov/drugs-
abuse/opioids. Accessed April 29, 2019.

National Institute on Drug Abuse website. What are the medical complications
of chronic heroin use? www.drugabuse.gov/publications/research-
reports/heroin/what-are-medical-complications-chronic-heroin-use. Updated June
2018. Accessed April 29, 2019.

Nikolaides JK, Thompson TM. Opioids. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 156.

## Review Date 4/25/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heroin](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Heroin_thumb.jpg)Heroin _Read more_

![Opioid Abuse and
Addiction](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OpioidAbuseandAddiction_thumb.jpg)Opioid
Misuse and Addiction _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

