Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000879.htm    
                                Description: Rosacea is a chronic skin problem that makes your face turn red. It may also cause swelling and skin sores that look like acne.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Rosacea

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000879.htm

# Rosacea

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Rosacea is a chronic skin problem that makes your face turn red. It may also
cause swelling and skin sores that look like acne.

## Causes

The cause is not known. You may be more likely to have this if you are:

      * Age 30 to 50
      * Fair-skinned
      * A woman

Rosacea involves swelling of the blood vessels just under the skin. It may be
linked with other skin disorders (acne vulgaris, seborrhea) or eye disorders
(blepharitis, keratitis).

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Redness of the face
      * Blushing or flushing easily
      * A lot of spider-like blood vessels (telangiectasia) of the face
      * Red nose (called a bulbous nose)
      * Acne-like skin sores that may ooze or crust
      * Burning or stinging feeling in the face
      * Irritated, bloodshot, watery eyes 

The condition is less common in men, but the symptoms tend to be more severe.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider can often diagnose rosacea by doing a physical exam
and asking questions about your medical history.

## Treatment

There is no known cure for rosacea.

Your provider will help you identify the things that make your symptoms worse.
These are called triggers. Triggers vary from person to person. Avoiding your
triggers may help you prevent or reduce flare-ups.

Some things you can do to help ease or prevent symptoms include:

      * Avoid sun exposure. Use sunscreen every day.
      * Avoid a lot of activity in hot weather.
      * Try to reduce stress. Try deep breathing, yoga, or other relaxation techniques.
      * Limit spicy foods, alcohol, and hot beverages. 

Other triggers may include wind, hot baths, cold weather, specific skin
products, exercise, or other factors.

      * Antibiotics taken by mouth or applied to the skin may control acne-like skin problems. Ask your provider.
      * Isotretinoin is a strong drug that your provider might consider. It is used in people who have severe rosacea that hasn't improved after treatment with other medicines.
      * Rosacea is not acne and will not improve with over-the-counter acne treatment.

In very bad cases, laser surgery may help reduce the redness. Surgery to
remove some swollen nose tissue may also improve your appearance.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Rosacea is a harmless condition, but it may cause you to be self-conscious or
embarrassed. It cannot be cured, but may be controlled with treatment.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Lasting changes in appearance (for example, a red, swollen nose)
      * Lower self-esteem 

## Alternative Names

Acne rosacea

## Images

      * ![Rosacea](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19686t.jpg)Rosacea
      * ![Rosacea](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2469t.jpg)Rosacea

## References

Habif TP. Acne, rosacea, and related disorders. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 7.

Kroshinsky D. Macular, papular, purpuric, vesiculobullous, and pustular
diseases. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 410.

van Zuuren EJ, Fedorowicz Z, Carter B, van der Linden MM, Charland L.
Interventions for rosacea. _Cochrane Database Syst Rev_. 2015;(4):CD003262.
PMID: 25919144 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25919144.

## Review Date 7/11/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Rosacea](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Rosacea_thumb.jpg)Rosacea _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

