Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lymedisease.html    
                                Description: Lyme disease is an infection you get from tick bites. The first symptom is usually a rash. Learn about Lyme disease symptoms and treatment.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Lyme Disease

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lymedisease.html

#  Lyme Disease

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Symptoms
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images
    * Health Check Tools

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is Lyme disease?

Lyme disease is a bacterial infection you get from the bite of an infected
tick. At first, Lyme disease usually causes symptoms such as a rash, fever,
headache, and fatigue. But if it is not treated early, the infection can
spread to your joints, heart, and nervous system. Prompt treatment can help
you recover quickly.

### What causes Lyme disease?

Lyme disease is caused by bacteria. In the United States, this is usually a
bacterium called Borrelia burgdorferi. It spreads to humans through the bite
of an infected tick. The ticks that spread it are blacklegged ticks (or deer
ticks). They are usually found in the

    * Northeast
    * Mid-Atlantic
    * Upper Midwest
    * Pacific coast, especially northern California

These ticks can attach to any part your body. But they are often found in
hard-to-see areas such as your groin, armpits, and scalp. Usually the tick
must be attached to you for 36 to 48 hours or more to spread the bacterium to
you.

### Who is at risk for Lyme disease?

Anyone can get a tick bite. But people who spend lots of time outdoors in
wooded, grassy areas are at a higher risk. This includes campers, hikers, and
people who work in gardens and parks.

Most tick bites happen in the summer months when ticks are most active and
people spend more time outdoors. But you can get bitten in the warmer months
of early fall, or even late winter if temperatures are unusually high. And if
there is a mild winter, ticks may come out earlier than usual.

### What are the symptoms of Lyme disease?

Early symptoms of Lyme disease start between 3 to 30 days after an infected
tick bites you. The symptoms can include

    * A red rash called erythema migrans (EM). Most people with Lyme disease get this rash. It gets bigger over several days and may feel warm. It is usually not painful or itchy. As it starts to get better, parts of it may fade. Sometimes this makes the rash look like a "bull's-eye."
    * Fever
    * Chills
    * Headache
    * Fatigue
    * Muscle and joint aches
    * Swollen lymph nodes

If the infection is not treated, it can spread to your joints, heart, and
nervous system. The symptoms may include

    * Severe headaches and neck stiffness
    * Additional EM rashes on other areas of your body
    * Facial palsy, which is a weakness in your facial muscles. It can cause drooping on one or both sides of your face.
    * Arthritis with severe joint pain and swelling, especially in your knees and other large joints
    * Pain that comes and goes in your tendons, muscles, joints, and bones
    * Heart palpitations, which are feelings that your heart is skipping a beat, fluttering, pounding, or beating too hard or too fast
    * An irregular heart beat (Lyme carditis)
    * Episodes of dizziness or shortness of breath
    * Inflammation of the brain and spinal cord
    * Nerve pain
    * Shooting pains, numbness, or tingling in the hands or feet

### How is Lyme disease diagnosed?

To make a diagnosis, your health care provider will consider

    * Your symptoms
    * How likely it is that you were exposed to infected blacklegged ticks
    * The possibility that other illnesses may cause similar symptoms 
    * Results of any lab tests

Most Lyme disease tests check for antibodies made by the body in response to
infection. These antibodies can take several weeks to develop. If you are
tested right away, it may not show that you have Lyme disease, even if you
have it. So you may need to have another test later.

### What are the treatments for Lyme disease?

Lyme disease is treated with antibiotics. The earlier you are treated, the
better; it gives you the best chance of fully recovering quickly.

After treatment, some patients may still have pain, fatigue, or difficulty
thinking that lasts more than 6 months. This is called post-treatment Lyme
disease syndrome (PTLDS). Researchers don't know why some people have PTLDS.
There is no proven treatment for PTLDS; long-term antibiotics have not been
shown to help. However, there are ways to help with the symptoms of PTLDS. If
you have been treated for Lyme disease and still feel unwell, contact your
health care provider about how to manage your symptoms. Most people do get
better with time. But it can take several months before you feel all better.

### Can Lyme disease be prevented?

To prevent Lyme disease, you should lower your risk of getting a tick bite:

    * Avoid areas where ticks live, such as grassy, brushy, or wooded areas. If you are hiking, walk in the center of the trail to avoid brush and grass.
    * Use an insect repellent with DEET
    * Treat your clothing and gear with a repellant containing 0.5% permethrin
    * Wear light-colored protective clothing, so you can easily see any ticks that get on you
    * Wear a long-sleeve shirt and long pants. Also tuck your shirt into your pants and your pant legs into your socks.
    * Check yourself, your children, and your pets daily for ticks. Carefully remove any ticks you find.
    * Take a shower and wash and dry your clothes at high temperatures after being outdoors

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Start Here

    * Lyme Disease (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Lyme Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases)
    * Lyme Disease Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Ticks and Lyme Disease: Symptoms, Treatment, and Prevention (Food and Drug Administration) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Symptoms

    * Signs and Symptoms of Untreated Lyme Disease (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Lyme Disease Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Stop Ticks (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Tick Removal: A Step-by-Step Guide (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Travelers' Health: Protection against Mosquitoes, Ticks, and Other Arthropods (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Related Issues

    * Lyme Disease Transmission (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Neurological Complications of Lyme Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)

## Specifics

    * Chronic Lyme Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases)
    * Post-Treatment Lyme Disease Syndrome (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: Lyme disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Images

    * Lyme Disease (Logical Images)

## Health Check Tools

    * Lyme Disease: Fact or Fiction? (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Statistics and Research

    * Lyme Disease Data (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Scientists Work Toward a Rapid Point-of-Care Diagnostic Test for Lyme Disease (National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases)
    * Tickborne Diseases Are Likely to Increase, Say NIAID Officials (National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Lyme Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Post-Lyme Disease Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Missing the Target.
    * Article: Two Neonates With Postnatally Acquired Tickborne Infections.
    * Article: Lyme Disease: a Tick-borne Infection.
    * Lyme Disease -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * American Lyme Disease Foundation
    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
    * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * Lyme Disease (For Kids) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Lyme Disease (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

    * Lyme Disease (Nemours Foundation)
    * Lyme Disease (Logical Images)

## Patient Handouts

    * Lyme disease (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Lyme disease antibody (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Ticks and Lyme Disease: Symptoms, Treatment, and Prevention (Food and Drug Administration) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Lyme Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LymeDisease.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Lyme disease
    * Lyme disease - what to ask your doctor
    * Lyme disease antibody

## Related Health Topics

    * Insect Bites and Stings
    * Tick Bites

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Lyme Disease is the National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## NIH MedlinePlus Magazine

    * From Lyme Disease to Art and Advocacy

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 25 November 2019

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

