Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000402.htm    
                                Description: Familial dysbetalipoproteinemia is a disorder passed down through families. It causes high amounts of cholesterol and triglycerides in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Familial dysbetalipoproteinemia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000402.htm

# Familial dysbetalipoproteinemia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Familial dysbetalipoproteinemia is a disorder passed down through families. It
causes high amounts of cholesterol and triglycerides in the blood.

## Causes

A genetic defect causes this condition. The defect results in the buildup of
large lipoprotein particles that contain both cholesterol and a type of fat
called triglycerides. The disease is linked to defects in the gene for
apolipoprotein E.

Hypothyroidism, obesity, or diabetes can make the condition worse. Risk
factors for familial dysbetalipoproteinemia include a family history of the
disorder or coronary artery disease.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may not be seen until age 20 or older.

Yellow deposits of fatty material in the skin called xanthomas may appear on
the eyelids, palms of the hands, soles of the feet, or on the tendons of the
knees and elbows.

Other symptoms may include:

      * Chest pain (angina) or other signs of coronary artery diseaseÂ may be present at a young age
      * Cramping ofÂ one or both calves when walking 
      * Sores on the toes that do not heal
      * Sudden stroke-like symptoms such as trouble speaking, drooping onÂ one side of the face, weakness of an arm or leg, and loss of balance

## Exams and Tests

Tests that may be done to diagnose this condition include:

      * Genetic testing for apolipoprotein E (apoE)
      * Lipid panel blood test
      * Triglyceride level
      * Very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) test

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to control conditions such as obesity,
hypothyroidism, and diabetes.

Making diet changes to reduce calories, saturated fats, and cholesterol may
help lower blood cholesterol.

If cholesterol and triglyceride levels are still high after you have made diet
changes, your health care provider may have you take medicines as well.
Medicines to lower blood triglyceride and cholesterol levels include:

      * Bile acid-sequestering resins.
      * Fibrates (gemfibrozil, fenofibrate).
      * Nicotinic acid.
      * Statins.
      * PCSK9 inhibitors, such as alirocumab (Praluent) and evolocumab (Repatha). These represent a newer class of drugs to treat cholesterol.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People with this condition have a significantly increased risk for coronary
artery disease and peripheral vascular disease.

With treatment, most people are able to greatly reduce theirÂ levels of
cholesterol and triglycerides.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Heart attack
      * Stroke
      * Peripheral vascular disease
      * Intermittent claudication
      * Gangrene of the lower extremities

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have been diagnosed with this disorder and:

      * New symptoms develop. 
      * Symptoms do not improve with treatment. 
      * Symptoms get worse.

## Prevention

Screening the family members of people with this condition may lead to early
detection and treatment.

Getting treated early and limiting other risk factors such as smoking can help
prevent early heart attacks, strokes, and blocked blood vessels.

## Alternative Names

Type III hyperlipoproteinemia; Deficient or defective apolipoprotein E

## Images

      * ![Coronary artery disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8755t.jpg)Coronary artery disease

## References

Genest J, Libby P. Lipoprotein disorders and cardiovascular disease. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 48.

Semenkovich, CF. Disorders of lipid metabolism. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 206.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cholesterol](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cholesterol2_thumb.jpg)Cholesterol
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

