Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000403.htm    
                                Description: Cholesterol is a fat (also called a lipid) that your body needs to work properly. Too much bad cholesterol can increase your chance of getting heart disease, stroke, and other problems.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

High blood cholesterol levels

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000403.htm

# High blood cholesterol levels

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cholesterol is a fat (also called a lipid) that your body needs to work
properly. Too much bad cholesterol can increase your chance of getting heart
disease, stroke, and other problems.

The medical term for high blood cholesterol is lipid disorder, hyperlipidemia,
or hypercholesterolemia.

## Causes

There are many types of cholesterol. The ones talked about most are:

      * Total cholesterol -- all the cholesterols combined
      * High density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol -- often called "good" cholesterol
      * Low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol -- often called "bad" cholesterol 

For many people, abnormal cholesterol levels are partly due to an unhealthy
lifestyle. This often includes eating a diet that is high in fat. Other
lifestyle factors are:

      * Being overweight
      * Lack of exercise 
![Cholesterol
producers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19269.jpg)

Some health conditions can also lead to abnormal cholesterol, including:

      * Diabetes
      * Kidney disease
      * Polycystic ovary syndrome
      * Pregnancy and other conditions that increase levels of female hormones
      * Underactive thyroid gland 

Medicines such as certain birth control pills, diuretics (water pills), beta-
blockers, and some medicines used to treat depression may also raise
cholesterol levels. Several disorders that are passed down through families
lead to abnormal cholesterol and triglyceride levels. They include:

      * Familial combined hyperlipidemia
      * Familial dysbetalipoproteinemia
      * Familial hypercholesterolemia
      * Familial hypertriglyceridemia 

Smoking does not cause higher cholesterol levels, but it can reduce your HDL
(good) cholesterol.

## Exams and Tests

A cholesterol test is done to diagnose a lipid disorder. Different experts
recommend different starting ages for adults.

      * Recommended starting ages are between 20 to 35 for men and 20 to 45 for women.
      * Adults with normal cholesterol levels do not need to have the test repeated for 5 years.
      * Repeat testing sooner if changes occur in lifestyle (including weight gain and diet).
      * Adults with a history of elevated cholesterol, diabetes, kidney problems, heart disease, and other conditions require more frequent testing. 

It is important to work with your health care provider to set your cholesterol
goals. Newer guidelines steer doctors away from targeting specific levels of
cholesterol. Instead, they recommend different medicines and doses depending
on a person's history and risk factor profile. These guidelines change from
time to time as more information from research studies becomes available.

General targets are:

      * LDL: 70 to 130 mg/dL (lower numbers are better)
      * HDL: More than 50 mg/dL (high numbers are better)
      * Total cholesterol: Less than 200 mg/dL (lower numbers are better)
      * Triglycerides: 10 to 150 mg/dL (lower numbers are better) 
![Cholesterol](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19190.jpg)

If your cholesterol results are abnormal, you may also have other tests such
as:

      * Blood sugar (glucose) test to look for diabetes
      * Kidney function tests
      * Thyroid function tests to look for an underactive thyroid gland 

## Treatment

Steps you can take to improve your cholesterol levels and to help prevent
heart disease and a heart attack include:

      * Quit smoking. This is the single biggest change you can make to reduce your risk of heart attack and stroke.
      * Eat foods that are naturally low in fat. These include whole grains, fruits, and vegetables.
      * Use low-fat toppings, sauces, and dressings.
      * Avoid foods that are high in saturated fat.
      * Exercise regularly.
      * Lose weight if you are overweight. 

Your provider may want you to take medicine for your cholesterol if lifestyle
changes do not work. This will depend on:

      * Your age
      * Whether or not you have heart disease, diabetes, or other blood flow problems
      * Whether you smoke or are overweight
      * Whether you have high blood pressure or diabetes 

You are more likely to need medicine to lower your cholesterol:

      * If you have heart disease or diabetes
      * If you are at risk for heart disease (even if you do not yet have any heart problems)
      * If your LDL cholesterol is 190 mg/dL or higher 

Almost everyone else may get health benefits from LDL cholesterol that is
lower than 160 to 190 mg/dL.

There are several types of drugs to help lower blood cholesterol levels. The
drugs work in different ways. Statins are one kind of drug that lowers
cholesterol and has been proven to reduce the chance of heart disease. Other
drugs are available if your risk is high and statins do not lower your
cholesterol levels enough. These include ezetimibe and PCSK9 inhibitors.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

High cholesterol levels can lead to hardening of the arteries, also called
atherosclerosis. This occurs when fat, cholesterol, and other substances build
up in the walls of arteries and form hard structures called plaques.

![Developmental process of
atherosclerosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18020.jpg)

Over time, these plaques can block the arteries and cause heart disease,
stroke, and other symptoms or problems throughout the body.

Disorders that are passed down through families often lead to higher
cholesterol levels that are harder to control.

## Alternative Names

Cholesterol - high; Lipid disorders; Hyperlipoproteinemia; Hyperlipidemia;
Dyslipidemia; Hypercholesterolemia

## Patient Instructions

      * Angina - discharge
      * Angioplasty and stent - heart - discharge 
      * Antiplatelet drugs - P2Y12 inhibitors
      * Aspirin and heart disease
      * Being active after your heart attack
      * Being active when you have heart disease
      * Butter, margarine, and cooking oils
      * Cardiac catheterization - discharge 
      * Cholesterol and lifestyle
      * Cholesterol - drug treatment
      * Cholesterol - what to ask your doctor 
      * Controlling your high blood pressure
      * Diabetes - preventing heart attack and stroke
      * Dietary fats explained
      * Fast food tips
      * Heart attack - discharge
      * Heart bypass surgery - discharge
      * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive - discharge
      * Heart disease - risk factors
      * Heart failure - fluids and diuretics
      * Heart failure - home monitoring
      * Heart pacemaker - discharge
      * How to read food labels
      * Low-salt diet 
      * Mediterranean diet
      * Stroke - discharge 
      * Type 2 diabetes - what to ask your doctor

## Images

      * ![Cholesterol producers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19269t.jpg)Cholesterol producers
      * ![Coronary artery disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8755t.jpg)Coronary artery disease
      * ![Cholesterol](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19190t.jpg)Cholesterol
      * ![Developmental process of atherosclerosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18020t.jpg)Developmental process of atherosclerosis

## References

Genest J, Libby P. Lipoprotein disorders and cardiovascular disease. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine._ 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 48.

Grundy SM, Stone NJ, Bailey AL, et al. 2018
AHA/ACC/AACVPR/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/ADA/AGS/APhA/ASPC/NLA/PCNA Guideline on the
Management of Blood Cholesterol: A Report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice
Guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol._ 2019;73(24);e285-e350. PMID: 30423393
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30423393.

Semenkovich CF. Disorders of lipid metabolism. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine._ 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 206.

U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommendation summary. Statin use for the
primary prevention of cardiovascular disease in adults: preventive medication.
www.uspreventiveservicestaskforce.org/Page/Document/UpdateSummaryFinal/statin-
use-in-adults-preventive-medication1. Updated November 2016. Accessed March
21, 2018.

U.S. Preventive Services Task Force, Bibbins-Domingo K, Grossman DC, Curry SJ,
et al. Screening for lipid disorders in children and adolescents: US
Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. _JAMA._
2016;316(6):625-633. PMID: 27532917 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27532917.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Internal review and update on 03/28/2019 by David
Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cholesterol](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cholesterol2_thumb.jpg)Cholesterol
_Read more_

![Cholesterol Levels: What You Need to
Know](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CholesterolLevels_thumb.jpg)Cholesterol
Levels: What You Need to Know _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

