Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007701.htm    
                                Description: Cholesterol is a fat (also called a lipid) that the body needs to work properly. There are many types of cholesterol. The ones talked about most are:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

High cholesterol - children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007701.htm

# High cholesterol - children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cholesterol is a fat (also called a lipid) that the body needs to work
properly. There are many types of cholesterol. The ones talked about most are:

      * Total cholesterol - all the cholesterols combined
      * High density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol - called good cholesterol
      * Low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol - called bad cholesterol 

Too much bad cholesterol can increase the chance of getting heart disease,
stroke, and other problems.

This article is about high cholesterol in children.

## Causes

Most children with high cholesterol have one or more parent who has high
cholesterol. The main causes of high cholesterol in children are:

      * Family history of high cholesterol
      * Being overweight or obese
      * Unhealthy diet 

Certain health conditions can also lead to abnormal cholesterol, including:

      * Diabetes
      * Kidney disease
      * Liver disease
      * Underactive thyroid gland 

Several disorders that are passed down through families lead to abnormal
cholesterol and triglyceride levels. They include:

      * Familial hypercholesterolemia
      * Familial combined hyperlipidemia
      * Familial dysbetalipoproteinemia
      * Familial hypertriglyceridemia 

## Exams and Tests

A cholesterol test is done to diagnose high blood cholesterol.

Guidelines from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute recommend
screening all children for high cholesterol:

      * Between ages 9 and 11 years
      * Again between ages 17 and 21 years 

However, not all expert groups recommend screening all children and instead
focus on screening children at higher risk. Factor that increase a child's
risk include:

      * The child's parents have total blood cholesterol of 240 mg/dL or higher
      * The child has a family member with a history of heart disease before age 55 in men and age 65 in women
      * The child has risk factors such as diabetes or high blood pressure
      * The child has certain health conditions such as kidney disease or Kawasaki disease
      * The child is obese (BMI in 95th percentile)
      * The child smokes cigarettes 

General targets for children are:

      * LDL. Less than 110 mg/dL (lower numbers are better).
      * HDL. More than 45 mg/dL (high numbers are better).
      * Total cholesterol. Less than 170 mg/dL (lower numbers are better).
      * Triglycerides. Less than 75 for child up to 9 years and less than 90 for child ages 10 to 19 years (lower numbers are better). 

If cholesterol results are abnormal, children may also have other tests such
as:

      * Blood sugar (glucose) test to look for diabetes
      * Kidney function tests
      * Thyroid function tests to look for an underactive thyroid gland
      * Liver function tests

Your child's provider also may ask about a medical or family history of:

      * Diabetes
      * Hypertension
      * Obesity
      * Poor food habits
      * Lack of physical activity
      * Tobacco use 

## Treatment

The best way to treat high cholesterol in children is with diet and exercise.
If your child is overweight, losing excess weight will help treat high
cholesterol. But you should not restrict your child's diet unless your child's
health care provider recommends it. Instead, offer healthy foods and encourage
physical activity.

DIET AND EXERCISE

Help your child make healthy food choices by following these guidelines:

      * Eat foods that are naturally high in fiber and low in fat such as whole grains, fruits, and vegetables
      * Use low-fat toppings, sauces, and dressings
      * Avoid foods that are high in saturated fat and added sugar
      * Use skim milk or low-fat milk and milk products
      * Avoid sugary drinks such as soda and flavored fruit drinks
      * Eat lean meat and avoid red meat
      * Eat more fish 

Encourage your child to be physically active. Children ages 5 years and older
should be active at least 1 hour a day. Other things you can do include:

      * Be active as a family. Plan walks and bike rides together instead of playing video games.
      * Encourage your child to join school or local sports teams.
      * Limit screen time to no more than 2 hours a day. 

Other steps include teaching children about the dangers of tobacco use.

      * Make your home a smoke-free environment.
      * If you or your partner smoke, try to quit. Never smoke around your child. 

DRUG THERAPY

Your child's provider may want your child to take medicine for cholesterol if
lifestyle changes do not work. For this the child must:

      * Be at least 10 years old.
      * Have an LDL cholesterol level 190 mg/dL or higher after 6 months of following a healthy diet.
      * Have an LDL cholesterol level 160 mg/dL or higher with other risk factors.
      * Have family history of cardiovascular disease.
      * Have one or more risk factors for cardiovascular disease. 

Children with very high cholesterol may need to start these medicines earlier
than age 10. Your child's doctor will tell you if this may be needed.

There are several types of drugs to help lower blood cholesterol levels. The
drugs work in different ways. Statins are one kind of drug that lowers
cholesterol and has been proven to reduce the chance of heart disease.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

High cholesterol levels can lead to hardening of the arteries, also called
atherosclerosis. This occurs when fat, cholesterol, and other substances build
up in the walls of arteries and form hard structures called plaques.

Over time, these plaques can block the arteries and cause heart disease,
stroke, and other symptoms or problems throughout the body.

Disorders that are passed down through families often lead to higher
cholesterol levels that are harder to control.

## Alternative Names

Lipid disorders - children; Hyperlipoproteinemia - children; Hyperlipidemia -
children; Dyslipidemia - children; Hypercholesterolemia - children

## References

Brothers JA, Daniels SR. Special patient populations: children and
adolescents. In: Ballantyne CM, ed. _Clinical Lipidology: A Companion to
Braunwald's Heart Disease_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 37.

Chen X, Zhou L, Hussain M. Lipids and dyslipoproteinemia. In: McPherson RA,
Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory
Methods_. 23rd ed. Phildadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 17.

Daniels SR, Couch SC. Lipid disorders in children and adolescents. In:
Sperling MA, ed. _Pediatric Endocrinology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 23.

Park MK. Dyslipidemia and other cardiovascular risk factors. In: Park MK, ed.
_Park's Pediatric Cardiology for Practitioners_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 33.

Stanley CA, Bennett MJ. Defects in metabolism of lipids. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 86.

US Preventive Services Task Force, Bibbins-Domingo K, Grossman DC, Curry SJ,
et al. Screening for lipid disorders in children and adolescents: US
Preventive Services Task Force Recommendation Statement. _JAMA_.
2016;316(6):625-633 PMID: 27532917 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27532917.

## Review Date 8/5/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cholesterol](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cholesterol2_thumb.jpg)Cholesterol
_Read more_

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HighCholesterolinChildrenandTeens_thumb.jpg)High
Cholesterol in Children and Teens _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

