Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000396.htm    
                                Description: Familial combined hyperlipidemia is a disorder that is passed down through families. It causes high cholesterol and high blood triglycerides.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Familial combined hyperlipidemia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000396.htm

# Familial combined hyperlipidemia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Familial combined hyperlipidemia is a disorder that is passed down through
families. It causes high cholesterol and high blood triglycerides.

## Causes

Familial combined hyperlipidemia is the most common genetic disorder that
increases blood fats. It can cause early heart attacks.

Diabetes, alcoholism, and hypothyroidism make the condition worse. Risk
factors include a family history of high cholesterol and early coronary artery
disease.

## Symptoms

In the early years, there may be no symptoms.

When symptoms appear, they may include:

      * Chest pain (angina) or other signs of coronary artery disease may be present at a young age.
      * Cramping of one or both calves when walking.
      * Sores on the toes that do not heal.
      * Sudden stroke-like symptoms, such as trouble speaking, drooping on one side of the face, weakness of an arm or leg, and loss of balance. 

People with this condition may develop high cholesterol or high triglyceride
levels as teenagers. The condition may also be diagnosed when people are in
their 20s and 30s. The levels remain high all during life. Those with familial
combined hyperlipidemia have an increased risk of early coronary artery
disease and heart attacks.Â They also haveÂ higher rates of obesity and are
more likely to have glucose intolerance.

## Exams and Tests

Blood tests will be done to check your levels of cholesterol and
triglycerides. Tests will show:

      * Increased LDL cholesterol
      * Decreased HDL cholesterol
      * Increased triglycerides
      * Increased apolipoprotein B100

Genetic testing is available for one type of familial combined hyperlipidemia.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to reduce the risk of atherosclerotic heart disease.

![Coronary artery
blockage](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/9377.jpg)

LIFESTYLE CHANGES

The first step is to change what you eat. Most of the time, you will try diet
changes for several months before your doctor recommends medicines. Diet
changes include lowering the amount of saturated fat and refined sugar.

Here are some changes you can make:

      * Eat less beef, chicken, pork, and lamb
      * Substitute low-fat dairy products for full-fat ones
      * Avoid packaged cookies and baked goods that contain trans fats
      * Reduce the cholesterol you eat by limiting egg yolks and organ meats 

Counseling is often recommended to help people make changes to their eating
habits. Weight loss and regular exercise may also help lower your cholesterol
levels.

![Healthy diet](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19492.jpg)

MEDICINES

If lifestyle changes do not change your cholesterol levels enough, or you are
at very high risk for atherosclerotic heart disease, your health care provider
may recommend that you take medicines. There are several types of drugs to
help lower blood cholesterol levels.

The drugs work in different ways to help you achieve healthy lipid levels.
Some are better at lowering LDL cholesterol, some are good at lowering
triglycerides, while others help raise HDL cholesterol.

The most commonly used, and most effective drugs for treating high LDL
cholesterol are called statins. They include lovastatin (Mevacor), pravastatin
(Pravachol), simvastatin (Zocor), fluvastatin (Lescol), atorvastatin
(Lipitor), rosuvastatin (Crestor), and pitivastatin (Livalo).

Other cholesterol-lowering medicines include:

      * Bile acid-sequestering resins.
      * Ezetimibe.
      * Fibrates (such as gemfibrozil and fenofibrate).
      * Nicotinic acid.
      * PCSK9 inhibitors, such as alirocumab (Praluent) and evolocumab (Repatha) These represent a newer class of drugs to treat high cholesterol. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you do depends on:

      * How early the condition is diagnosed
      * When you start treatment
      * How well you follow your treatment plan

Without treatment, heart attack or stroke may cause early death.

Even with medicine, some people may continue to have high lipid levels that
increase their risk for heart attack.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Early atherosclerotic heart disease
      * Heart attack 
      * Stroke

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Seek medical care right away if you have chest pain or other warning signs of
a heart attack.

Call your provider if you have a personal or family history of high
cholesterol levels.

## Prevention

A diet that is low in cholesterol and saturated fat may help to control LDL
levels in people at high risk.

If someone in your family has this condition, you may want to consider genetic
screening for yourself or your children. Sometimes, younger children may have
mild hyperlipidemia.

It is important to control other risk factors for early heart attacks, such as
smoking.

## Alternative Names

Multiple lipoprotein-type hyperlipidemia

## Images

      * ![Coronary artery blockage](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9377t.jpg)Coronary artery blockage
      * ![Healthy diet](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19492t.jpg)Healthy diet

## References

Genest J, Libby P. Lipoprotein disorders and cardiovascular disease. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 48.

Semenkovich, CF. Disorders of lipid metabolism. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 206.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cholesterol](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cholesterol2_thumb.jpg)Cholesterol
_Read more_

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HighCholesterolinChildrenandTeens_thumb.jpg)High
Cholesterol in Children and Teens _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

