Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000694.htm    
                                Description: Epilepsy is a brain disorder in which a person has repeated seizures over time. Seizures are episodes of uncontrolled and abnormal firing of brain cells that may cause changes in attention or behavior.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Epilepsy - overview

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000694.htm

# Epilepsy - overview

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Epilepsy is a brain disorder in which a person has repeated seizures over
time. Seizures are episodes of uncontrolled and abnormal firing of brain cells
that may cause changes in attention or behavior.

## Causes

Epilepsy occurs when changes in the brain cause it to be too excitable or
irritable. As a result, the brain sends out abnormal signals. This leads to
repeated, unpredictable seizures. (A single seizure that does not happen again
is not epilepsy.)

![Brain structures](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19236.jpg)

Epilepsy may be due to a medical condition or injury that affects the brain.
Or, the cause may be unknown (idiopathic).

Common causes of epilepsy include:

      * Stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA)
      * Dementia, such as Alzheimer disease
      * Traumatic brain injury
      * Infections, including brain abscess, meningitis, encephalitis, and HIV/AIDS
      * Brain problems that are present at birth (congenital brain defect)
      * Brain injury that occurs during or near birth
      * Metabolism disorders present at birth (such as phenylketonuria)
      * Brain tumor
      * Abnormal blood vessels in the brain
      * Other illness that damages or destroys brain tissue
      * Seizure disorders that run in families (hereditary epilepsy) 

Epileptic seizures usually begin between ages 5 and 20. There is also a higher
chance of seizures in adults older than 60. But epileptic seizures can happen
at any age. There may be a family history of seizures or epilepsy.

## Symptoms

Symptoms vary from person to person. Some people may have simple staring
spells. Others have violent shaking and loss of alertness. The type of seizure
depends on the part of the brain that is affected.

Most of the time, the seizure is similar to the one before it. Some people
with epilepsy have a strange sensation before each seizure. Sensations may be
tingling, smelling an odor that is not actually there, or emotional changes.
This is called an aura.

Your doctor can tell you more about the specific type of seizure you may have:

      * Absence (petit mal) seizure (staring spells)
      * Generalized tonic-clonic (grand mal) seizure (involves the entire body, including aura, rigid muscles, and loss of alertness)
      * Partial (focal) seizure (can involve any of the symptoms described above, depending on where in the brain the seizure starts) 

## Exams and Tests

The doctor will perform a physical exam. This will include a detailed look at
the brain and nervous system.

An EEG (electroencephalogram) will be done to check the electrical activity in
the brain. People with epilepsy often have abnormal electrical activity seen
on this test. In some cases, the test shows the area in the brain where the
seizures start. The brain may appear normal after a seizure or between
seizures.

To diagnose epilepsy or plan for epilepsy surgery, you may need to:

      * Wear an EEG recorder for days or weeks as you go about your everyday life.
      * Stay in a special hospital where brain activity can be recorded while video cameras capture what happens to you during the seizure. This is called video EEG. 

Tests that may be done include:

      * Blood chemistry
      * Blood sugar
      * Complete blood count (CBC)
      * Kidney function tests
      * Liver function tests
      * Lumbar puncture (spinal tap)
      * Tests for infectious diseases 

Head CT or MRI scan is often done to find the cause and location of the
problem in the brain.

## Treatment

Treatment for epilepsy includes taking medicines, lifestyle changes, and
sometimes surgery.

If epilepsy is due to a tumor, abnormal blood vessels, or bleeding in the
brain, surgery to treat these disorders may make the seizures stop.

Medicines to prevent seizures, called anticonvulsants (or antiepileptic
drugs), may reduce the number of future seizures:

      * These drugs are taken by mouth. Which type you are prescribed depends on the type of seizures you have.
      * Your dosage may need to be changed from time to time. You may need regular blood tests to check for side effects.
      * Always take your medicine on time and as directed. Missing a dose can cause you to have a seizure. DO NOT stop taking or change medicines on your own. Talk to your doctor first.
      * Many epilepsy medicines cause birth defects. Women who plan to become pregnant should tell their doctor in advance in order to adjust medicines. 

Many epilepsy drugs may affect the health of your bones. Talk to your doctor
about whether you need vitamins and other supplements.

Epilepsy that does not get better after 2 or 3 anti-seizure drugs have been
tried is called "medically refractory epilepsy." In this case, the doctor may
recommend surgery to:

      * Remove the abnormal brain cells causing the seizures.
      * Place a vagal nerve stimulator (VNS). This device is similar to a heart pacemaker. It can help reduce the number of seizures. 
![Role of the vagus nerve in
epilepsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19252.jpg)

Some children are placed on a special diet to help prevent seizures. The most
popular one is the ketogenic diet. A diet low in carbohydrates, such as the
Atkins diet, may also be helpful in some adults. Be sure to discuss these
options with your doctor before trying them.

Lifestyle or medical changes can increase the risk for a seizure in adults and
children with epilepsy. Talk with your doctor about:

      * New prescribed drugs, vitamins, or supplements
      * Emotional stress
      * Illness, especially infection
      * Lack of sleep
      * Pregnancy
      * Skipping doses of epilepsy medicines
      * Use of alcohol or other recreational drugs 

Other considerations:

      * People with epilepsy should wear medical alert jewelry so that prompt treatment can be obtained if a seizure occurs.
      * People with poorly controlled epilepsy should not drive. Check your state's law about which people with a history of seizures are allowed to drive.
      * DO NOT use machinery or do activities that can cause loss of awareness, such as climbing to high places, biking, and swimming alone. 

## Support Groups

The stress of having epilepsy or being a caretaker of someone with epilepsy
can often be helped by joining a support group. In these groups, members share
common experiences and problems.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Some people with epilepsy may be able to reduce or even stop their anti-
seizure medicines after having no seizures for several years. Certain types of
childhood epilepsy go away or improve with age, usually in the late teens or
20s.

For many people, epilepsy is a lifelong condition. In these cases, anti-
seizure drugs need to be continued. There is a very low risk for sudden death
with epilepsy.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Difficulty learning
      * Breathing in food or saliva into the lungs during a seizure, which can cause aspiration pneumonia
      * Injury from falls, bumps, self-inflicted bites, driving or operating machinery during a seizure
      * Permanent brain damage (stroke or other damage)
      * Side effects of medicines 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your local emergency number (such as 911) if:

      * This is the first time a person has a seizure
      * A seizure occurs in someone who is not wearing a medical ID bracelet (which has instructions explaining what to do) 

In the case of someone who has had seizures before, call 911 for any of these
emergency situations:

      * This is a longer seizure than the person normally has, or an unusual number of seizures for the person
      * Repeated seizures over a few minutes
      * Repeated seizures in which consciousness or normal behavior is not regained between them (status epilepticus) 

Call your doctor if any new symptoms occur:

      * Loss of hair
      * Nausea or vomiting
      * Rash
      * Side effects of medicines, such as drowsiness, restlessness, confusion, sedation
      * Tremors or abnormal movements, or problems with coordination 

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent epilepsy. Proper diet and sleep, and staying
away from alcohol and illegal drugs may decrease the likelihood of triggering
seizures in people with epilepsy.

Reduce the risk for head injury by wearing a helmet during risky activities.
This can lessen the likelihood of a brain injury that leads to seizures and
epilepsy.

## Alternative Names

Seizure disorder; Epileptic - epilepsy

## Patient Instructions

      * Brain surgery - discharge
      * Epilepsy in adults - what to ask your doctor
      * Epilepsy in children - discharge
      * Epilepsy in children - what to ask your doctor
      * Epilepsy or seizures - discharge 
      * Febrile seizures - what to ask your doctor
      * Stereotactic radiosurgery - discharge 

## Images

      * ![Brain structures](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19236t.jpg)Brain structures
      * ![Limbic system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19244t.jpg)Limbic system
      * ![Role of the vagus nerve in epilepsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19252t.jpg)Role of the vagus nerve in epilepsy
      * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system
      * ![Convulsions - first aid - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19590t.jpg)Convulsions - first aid - series

## References

Abou-Khalil BW, Gallagher MJ, Macdonald RL. Epilepsies. In: Daroff RB,
Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical
Practice._ 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 101.

GonzÃ¡lez HFJ, Yengo-Kahn A, Englot DJ. Vagus nerve stimulation for the
treatment of epilepsy. _Neurosurg Clin N Am._ 2019;30(2):219-230. PMID:
30898273 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30898273.

Wiebe S. The epilepsies. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine._ 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2020:chap 375.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Joseph V. Campellone, MD, Department of Neurology, Cooper Medical
School at Rowan University, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Internal review and update on 04/15/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Epilepsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Epilepsy_thumb.jpg)Epilepsy _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

