Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000221.htm    
                                Description: You have epilepsy. People with epilepsy have seizures. A seizure is a sudden brief change in the electrical activity in your brain. It leads to brief unconsciousness and uncontrollable body movements.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Epilepsy in adults - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000221.htm

# Epilepsy in adults - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You have epilepsy. People with epilepsy have seizures. A seizure is a sudden
brief change in the electrical activity in your brain. It leads to brief
unconsciousness and uncontrollable body movements.

Below are questions you may want to ask your health care provider to help you
take care of yourself.

## Questions

Should I call you, or someone else, every time I have a seizure?

What safety measures do I need to take at home to prevent injuries when I have
a seizure?

Is it OK for me to drive? Where can I call to find more information about
driving and epilepsy?

What should I discuss with my boss at work about my epilepsy?

      * Are there work activities that I should avoid?
      * Will I need to rest during the day?
      * Will I need to take medicines during the work day? 

Are there any sports activities that I should not do? Do I need to wear a
helmet for any type of activities?

Do I need to wear a medical alert bracelet?

      * Who else should know about my epilepsy?
      * Is it ever OK for me to be alone? 

What do I need to know about my seizure medicines?

      * What medicines am I taking? What are the side effects?
      * Can I take antibiotics or other medicines also? How about acetaminophen (Tylenol), vitamins, herbal remedies? Will birth control pills still work if I am taking medicines for my seizures?
      * What are the risks with these medicines if I were to get pregnant?
      * How should I store the seizure medicines?
      * What happens if I miss one or more doses?
      * Can I ever stop taking a seizure medicine if there are side effects?
      * Can I drink alcohol with my medicines? 

How often do I need to see the provider? When do I need blood tests?

What should I do if I am having trouble sleeping at night?

What are the signs that my epilepsy is becoming worse?

What should others with me do when I am having a seizure? After the seizure is
over, what should they do? When should they call the provider? When should we
call 911?

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about epilepsy - adult; Seizures - what to ask your
doctor - adult; Seizure - what to ask your doctor

## References

Abou-Khalil BW, Gallagher MJ, Macdonald RL. Epilepsies. In: Daroff RB,
Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical
Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 101.

Falcone T, Palombaro AM. Quality of life with epilepsy. In: Wyllie E, ed.
_Wyllie's Treatment of Epilepsy: Principles and Practice_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Wolters Kluwer; 2015:chap 95.

## Read More

      * Absence seizure
      * Brain surgery
      * Epilepsy - overview
      * Epilepsy - resources
      * Partial (focal) seizure
      * Seizures
      * Stereotactic radiosurgery - CyberKnife

## Patient Instructions

      * Brain surgery - discharge
      * Epilepsy or seizures - discharge 

## Review Date 10/18/2018

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Epilepsy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

