Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007681.htm    
                                Description: Epilepsy is a brain disorder in which a person has repeated seizures over time.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Epilepsy in children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007681.htm

# Epilepsy in children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Epilepsy is a brain disorder in which a person has repeated seizures over
time.

A seizure is a sudden change in the electrical and chemical activity in the
brain. A single seizure that does not happen again is NOT epilepsy.

## Causes

Epilepsy may be due to a medical condition or injury that affects the brain.
Or the cause may be unknown.

Common causes of epilepsy include:

      * Traumatic brain injury
      * Damage or scarring after infections of the brain
      * Birth defects that involve the brain
      * Brain injury that occurs during or near birth
      * Metabolic disorders present at birth (such as phenylketonuria)
      * Benign brain tumor, often very small
      * Abnormal blood vessels in the brain
      * Stroke
      * Other illnesses that damage or destroy brain tissue

Epileptic seizures usually start between ages 5 and 20. But they can happen at
any age. There may be a family history of seizures or epilepsy.

A febrile seizure is a convulsion in a child triggered by a fever. Most of the
time, a febrile seizure is not a sign that the child has epilepsy.  

## Symptoms

Symptoms vary from child to child. Some children may simply stare. Others may
shake violently and lose alertness. The movements or symptoms of a seizure may
depend on the part of the brain that is affected.

Your child's health care provider can tell you more about the specific type of
seizure your child mayÂ have:

      * Absence (petit mal) seizure: Staring spells
      * Generalized tonic-clonic (grand mal) seizure: Involves the entire body, including aura, rigid muscles, and loss of alertness
      * Partial (focal) seizure: Can involve any of the symptoms described above, depending on where in the brain the seizure starts

Most of the time, the seizure is similar to the one before it. Some children
have a strange sensation before a seizure. Sensations may be tingling,
smelling an odor that is not actually there, feeling fear or anxiety for no
reason or having a sense of dÃ©jÃ vu (feeling that something has happened
before). This is called an aura.  

## Exams and Tests

The provider will:

      * Ask about your child's medical and family history in detail
      * Ask about the seizure episode
      * Do a physical exam of your child, including a detailed look at the brain and nervous system

The provider will order an EEG (electroencephalogram) to check the electrical
activity in the brain. This test often shows any abnormal electrical activity
in the brain. In some cases, the test shows the area in the brain where the
seizures start. The brain may appear normal after a seizure or between
seizures.

To diagnose epilepsy or plan for epilepsy surgery, your child may need to:

      * Wear an EEG recorder for few days during day-to-day activities
      * Stay in the hospital where brain activity can be watched on video cameras (video EEG)

The provider also may order other tests, including:

      * Blood chemistry
      * Blood sugar
      * Complete blood count (CBC)
      * Kidney function tests
      * Liver function tests
      * Lumbar puncture (spinal tap)
      * Tests for infectious diseases

Head CT or MRI scan are often done to find the cause and location of the
problem in the brain. Much less often, PET scan of the brain is needed to help
plan surgery.  

## Treatment

Treatment for epilepsy includes:

      * Medicines
      * Lifestyle changes
      * Surgery

If your child's epilepsy is due to a tumor, abnormal blood vessels, or
bleeding in the brain, surgery may be needed.

Medicines to prevent seizures are called anticonvulsants or antiepileptic
drugs. These may reduce the number of future seizures.

      * These medicines are taken by mouth. The type of medicine prescribed depends on the type of seizure your child has.
      * The dosage may need to be changed from time to time. The provider may order regular blood tests to check for side effects.
      * Always make sure your child takes the medicine on time and as directed. Missing a dose can cause your child to have a seizure. Do NOT stop or change medicines on your own. Talk to the provider first.

Many epilepsy drugs may affect your child's bone health. Talk to your child's
provider about whether your child needs vitamins and other supplements.

Epilepsy that is not well controlled after trying a number of antiseizure
drugs is called "medically refractory epilepsy." In this case, the doctor may
recommend surgery to:

      * Remove the abnormal brain cells causing the seizures.
      * Place a vagal nerve stimulator (VNS). This device is similar to a heart pacemaker. It can help reduce the number of seizures.

Some children are placed on a special diet to help prevent seizures. The most
popular one is the ketogenic diet. A diet low in carbohydrates, such as the
Atkins diet, also may be helpful. Be sure to discuss these options with your
child's provider before trying them.

Epilepsy is often a lifelong or chronic illness. Important management issues
include:

      * Taking medicines
      * Staying safe, such as never swimming alone, fall-proofing your home and so onÂ 
      * Managing stress and sleep
      * Avoiding alcohol and drug abuse
      * Keeping up in school
      * Managing other illnesses

Managing these lifestyle or medical issues at home can be a challenge. Be sure
to talk with your child's provider if you have concerns.

## Support Groups

The stress of being a caretaker of a child with epilepsy can often be helped
by joining a support group. In these groups, members share common experiences
and problems.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most children with epilepsy live a normal life. Certain types of childhood
epilepsy go away or improve with age, usually in the late teens or 20s. If
your child does not have seizures for a few years, the provider may stop
medicines.

For many children, epilepsy is a lifelong condition. In these cases, the
medicines need to be continued.

Children who have developmental disorders in addition to epilepsy may face
challenges throughout their life.

Knowing more about the condition will help you take better care of your
child's epilepsy.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Difficulty learning
      * Breathing in food or saliva into the lungs during a seizure, which can cause aspiration pneumonia
      * Irregular heartbeat
      * Injury from falls, bumps, or self-caused bites during a seizure
      * Permanent brain damage (stroke or other damage)
      * Side effects of medicines

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your local emergency number (such as 911) if:

      * This is the first time your child has a seizure
      * A seizure occurs in a child who is not wearing a medical ID bracelet (which has instructions explaining what to do)

If your child has had seizures before, call 911 for any of these emergency
situations:

      * The seizure is longer than the child normally has or the child has an unusual number of seizures
      * The child has repeated seizures over a few minutes
      * The child has repeated seizures in which consciousness or normal behavior is not regained between them (status epilepticus)
      * The child gets injured during the seizure
      * The child has difficulty breathing

Call the provider if your child has new symptoms:

      * Nausea or vomiting
      * Rash
      * Side effects of medicines, such as drowsiness, restlessness, or confusion
      * Tremors or abnormal movements, or problems with coordination

Contact the provider even if your child is normal after the seizure has
stopped.

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent epilepsy. Proper diet and sleep may decrease
the chances of seizures in children with epilepsy.

Reduce the risk of head injury during risky activities. This can decrease the
likelihood of a brain injury that leads to seizures and epilepsy.

## Alternative Names

Seizure disorderÂ - children; Convulsion - childhood epilepsy; Medically
refractory childhood epilepsy; Anticonvulsant - childhood epilepsy;
Antiepileptic drug - childhood epilepsy; AED - childhood epilepsy

## References

Ghatan S, McGoldrick PE, Kokoszka MA, Wolf SM. Pediatric epilepsy surgery. In:
Winn HR, ed. _Youmans and Winn Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 240.

Mikati MA, Hani AJ. Seizures in childhood. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 593.

Pearl PL. Overview of seizures and epilepsy in children. In: Swaiman K, Ashwal
S, Ferriero DM, et al, eds. _Swaiman's Pediatric Neurology: Principles and
Practice_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 61.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Epilepsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Epilepsy_thumb.jpg)Epilepsy _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

