Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000222.htm    
                                Description: Your child has epilepsy. Children with epilepsy have seizures. A seizure is a sudden brief change in the electrical activity in the brain. Your child may have brief periods of unconsciousness and uncontrollable    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Epilepsy in children - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000222.htm

# Epilepsy in children - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your child has epilepsy. Children with epilepsy have seizures. A seizure is a
sudden brief change in the electrical activity in the brain. Your child may
have brief periods of unconsciousness and uncontrollable body movements during
seizures. Children with epilepsy can have one or more types of seizures.

Below are some questions you may want to ask your child's health care provider
to help you take care of your child's epilepsy.

## Questions

What safety measures do I need to take at home to keep my child safe during a
seizure?

What should I discuss with my child's teachers about epilepsy?

      * Will my child need to take medicines during the school day?
      * Can my child participate in gym class and recess? 

Are there any sports activities that my child should not do? Does my child
need to wear a helmet for any type of activities?

Does my child need to wear a medical alert bracelet?

Who else should know about my child's epilepsy?

Is it ever OK to leave my child alone?

What do we need to know about my child's seizure medicines?

      * What medicines does my child take? What are the side effects?
      * Can my child take antibiotics or other medicines also? How about acetaminophen (Tylenol), vitamins, or herbal remedies?
      * How should I store the seizure medicines?
      * What happens if my child misses one or more doses?
      * Can my child ever stop taking a seizure medicine if there are side effects? 

How often does my child need to see the doctor? When does my child need blood
tests?

Will I always be able to tell my child is having a seizure?

What are the signs that my child's epilepsy is becoming worse?

What should I do when my child is having a seizure?

      * When should I call 911?
      * After the seizure is over, what should I do?
      * When should I call the doctor? 

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about epilepsy - child; Seizures - what to ask your
doctor - child

## References

Abou-Khalil BW, Gallagher MJ, Macdonald RL. Epilepsies. In: Daroff RB,
Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical
Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 101.

Mikati MA, Hani AJ. Seizures in childhood. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 593.

## Read More

      * Absence seizure
      * Brain surgery
      * Epilepsy - overview
      * Epilepsy - resources
      * Partial (focal) seizure
      * Seizures
      * Stereotactic radiosurgery - CyberKnife

## Patient Instructions

      * Brain surgery - discharge
      * Epilepsy in children - discharge
      * Preventing head injuries in children

## Review Date 3/24/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Epilepsy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

