Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001580.htm    
                                Description: Anencephaly is the absence of a large part of the brain and the skull.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Anencephaly

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001580.htm

# Anencephaly

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Anencephaly is the absence of a large part of the brain and the skull.

## Causes

Anencephaly is one of the most common neural tube defects. Neural tube defects
are birth defects that affect the tissue that becomes the spinal cord and
brain.

Anencephaly occurs early in the development of an unborn baby. It results when
the upper part of the neural tube fails to close. The exact cause is not
known. Possible causes include:

      * Environmental toxins
      * Low intake of folic acid by the mother during pregnancy

The exact number of cases of anencephaly is unknown. Many of these pregnancies
result in miscarriage. Having one infant with this condition increases the
risk of having another child with neural tube defects.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of anencephaly are:

      * Absence of the skull
      * Absence of parts of the brain
      * Facial feature abnormalities
      * Severe developmental delay

Heart defects may be present in 1 out of 5 cases.

## Exams and Tests

An ultrasound during pregnancy is done to confirm the diagnosis. The
ultrasound may reveal too much fluid in the uterus. This condition is called
polyhydramnios.

The mother may also have these tests during pregnancy:

      * Amniocentesis (to look for increased levels of alpha-fetoprotein)
      * Alpha-fetoprotein level (increased levels suggest a neural tube defect)
      * Urine estriol level 

A pre-pregnancy serum folic acid test may also be done.

## Treatment

There is no current treatment. Talk to your health care provider about care
decisions.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

This condition most often causes death within a few days after birth.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

A provider usually detects this condition during routine prenatal testing and
ultrasound. Otherwise, it is recognized at birth.

If anencephaly is detected before birth, further counseling will be needed.

## Prevention

There is good evidence that folic acid can help reduce the risk for certain
birth defects, including anencephaly. Women who are pregnant or planning to
become pregnant should take a multivitamin with folic acid every day. Many
foods are now fortified with folic acid to help prevent these kinds of birth
defects.

Getting enough folic acid can cut the chances of neural tube defects in half.

## Alternative Names

Aprosencephaly with open cranium

## Images

      * ![Ultrasound, normal fetus - ventricles of brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2266t.jpg)Ultrasound, normal fetus - ventricles of brain

## References

Huang SB, Doherty D. Congenital malformations of the central nervous system.
In: Gleason CA, Juul SE, eds. _Avery's Diseases of the Newborn._ 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 59.

Kinsman SL, Johnston MV. Congenital anomalies of the central nervous system.
In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds.
_Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 609.

Sarnat HB, Flores-Sarnat L. Developmental disorders of the nervous system. In:
Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 89.

## Review Date 4/4/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Children's Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Neural Tube
Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NeuralTubeDefects_thumb.jpg)Neural
Tube Defects _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

