Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003715.htm    
                                Description: Alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT) is a laboratory test to measure the amount of AAT in your blood. The test is also done to check for abnormal forms of AAT.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Alpha-1 antitrypsin blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003715.htm

# Alpha-1 antitrypsin blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT) is a laboratory test to measure the amount of AAT in
your blood. The test is also done to check for abnormal forms of AAT.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

There is no special preparation.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is helpful in identifying a rare form of emphysema in adults and a
rare form of liver disease (cirrhosis) in children and adults caused by an AAT
deficiency. AAT deficiency is passed down through families. The condition
causes the liver to make too little of AAT, a protein that protects the lungs
and liver from damage.

Everyone has two copies of the gene that makes AAT. Most people with a lower-
than-normal level of AAT have one normal gene for AAT, and one abnormal gene.
People with two abnormal copies of the gene have more severe disease.

## Normal Results

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your health care provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A lower-than-normal level of AAT may be associated with:

      * Damage of the large airways in the lungs (bronchiectasis)
      * Scarring of the liver (cirrhosis)
      * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
      * Liver tumors
      * Yellowing of the skin and eyes due to blocked bile flow (obstructive jaundice)
      * High blood pressure in the large vein leads to the liver (portal hypertension)

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another, and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

      * Excessive bleeding
      * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
      * Multiple punctures to locate veins
      * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
      * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

A1AT test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Alpha1-antitrypsin - serum. In: Chernecky CC, Berger
BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier Saunders; 2013:121-122.

Winnie GB, Boas SR. A1-antitrypsin deficiency and emphysema. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 393.

## Review Date 7/20/2018

Updated by: Allen J. Blaivas, DO, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and
Sleep Medicine, VA New Jersey Health Care System, Clinical Assistant
Professor, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, East Orange, NJ. Review provided
by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Alpha-1 Antitrypsin
Deficiency](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Alpha-1AntitrypsinDeficiency_thumb.jpg)Alpha-1
Antitrypsin Deficiency _Read more_

![Cirrhosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cirrhosis2_thumb.jpg)Cirrhosis
_Read more_

![Emphysema](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Emphysema_thumb.jpg)Emphysema
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

