Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000128.htm    
                                Description: Interstitial lung disease (ILD) is a group of lung disorders in which the lung tissues become inflamed and then damaged.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Interstitial lung disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000128.htm

# Interstitial lung disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Interstitial lung disease (ILD) is a group of lung disorders in which the lung
tissues become inflamed and then damaged.

## Causes

The lungs contain tiny air sacs (alveoli), which is where oxygen is absorbed.
These air sacs expand with each breath.

The tissue around these air sacs is called the interstitium. In people with
interstitial lung disease, this tissue becomes stiff or scarred, and the air
sacs are not able to expand as much. As a result, not as much oxygen can get
to the body.

ILD can occur without a known cause. This is called idiopathic ILD. Idiopathic
pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is the most common disease of this type.

There are also dozens of known causes of ILD, including:

      * Autoimmune diseases (in which the immune system attacks the body) such as lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, sarcoidosis, and scleroderma
      * Lung inflammation due to breathing in a foreign substance such as certain types of dust, fungus, or mold (hypersensitivity pneumonitis)
      * Medicines (such as nitrofurantoin, sulfonamides, bleomycin, amiodarone, methotrexate, gold, infliximab, and etanercept)
      * Radiation treatment to the chest
      * Working with or around asbestos, coal dust, cotton dust, and silica dust (called occupational lung disease) 

Cigarette smoking may increase the risk of developing some forms of ILD and
may cause the disease to be more severe.

## Symptoms

Shortness of breath is a main symptom of ILD. You may breathe faster or need
to take deep breaths:

      * At first, shortness of breath may not be severe and is only noticed with exercise, climbing stairs, and other activities.
      * Over time, it can occur with less strenuous activity such as bathing or dressing, and as the disease worsens, even with eating or talking. 

Most people with this condition also have a dry cough. A dry cough means you
do not cough up any mucus or sputum.

Over time, weight loss, fatigue, and muscle and joint pain are also present.

People with more advanced ILD may have:

      * Abnormal enlargement of the base of the fingernails (clubbing)
      * Blue color of the lips, skin, or fingernails due to low blood oxygen levels (cyanosis) 
      * Symptoms of the other diseases such as arthritis or trouble swallowing (scleroderma), associated with ILD

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. Dry, crackling breath
sounds may be heard when listening to the chest with a stethoscope.

The following tests may be done:

      * Blood tests to check for autoimmune diseases
      * Bronchoscopy with or without biopsy
      * Chest x-ray
      * High resolution CT (HRCT) scan of the chest
      * MRI chest
      * Echocardiogram
      * Open lung biopsy
      * Measurement of the blood oxygen level at rest or when active
      * Blood gases
      * Pulmonary function tests
      * Six minute walk test (checks how far you can walk in 6 minutes and how many times you need to stop to catch your breath) 

People who are heavily exposed to known causes of lung disease in the
workplace are usually routinely screened for lung disease. These jobs include
coal mining, sand blasting, and working on a ship.

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause and duration of the disease. Medicines that
suppress the immune system and reduce swelling in the lungs are prescribed if
an autoimmune disease is causing the problem. For some people who have IPF,
pirfenidone and nintedanib are two medicines that may be used to slow the
disease. If there is no specific treatment for the condition, the aim is to
make you more comfortable and supportÂ lung function:

      * If you smoke, ask your provider about how to stop smoking.
      * People with low blood oxygen levels will receive oxygen therapy in their home. A respiratory therapist will help you set up the oxygen. Families need to learn proper oxygen storage and safety. 

Lung rehabilitation can provide support, and help you learn:

      * Different breathing methods
      * How to set up your home to save energy
      * How to eat enough calories and nutrients
      * How to stay active and strong 

Some people with advanced ILD may need a lung transplant.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a support group. Sharing with
others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The chance of recovering or ILD getting worse depends on the cause and how
severe the disease was when it was first diagnosed.

Some people with ILD develop heart failure and high blood pressure in the
blood vessels of their lungs.

Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis has a poor outlook.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * Your breathing is getting harder, faster, or more shallow than before
      * You cannot get a deep breath, or need to lean forward when sitting
      * You are having headaches more often
      * You feel sleepy or confused
      * You have a fever
      * You are coughing up dark mucus
      * Your fingertips or the skin around your fingernails is blue

## Alternative Names

Diffuse parenchymal lung disease; Alveolitis; Idiopathic pulmonary pneumonitis
(IPP)

## Patient Instructions

      * How to breathe when you are short of breath
      * Interstitial lung disease - adults - discharge
      * Oxygen safety
      * Traveling with breathing problems
      * Using oxygen at home

## Images

      * ![Clubbing](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1598t.jpg)Clubbing
      * ![Coal workers pneumoconiosis - stage II](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1601t.jpg)Coal workers pneumoconiosis - stage II
      * ![Coal workers pneumoconiosis - stage II](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1602t.jpg)Coal workers pneumoconiosis - stage II
      * ![Coal workers pneumoconiosis, complicated](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1603t.jpg)Coal workers pneumoconiosis, complicated
      * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Corte TJ, Du Bois RM, Wells AU. Connective tissue diseases. In: Broaddus VC,
Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 65.

Raghu G. Interstitial lung disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 92.

Ryu JH, Selman M, Colby TV, King TE. Idiopathic interstitial pneumonias. In:
Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of
Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap
63.

## Review Date 10/23/2017

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron Jr. Associate Professor
of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School of
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by David
Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Enfermedad pulmonar
intersticial](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InterstitialLungDisease_thumb.jpg)Interstitial
Lung Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

