Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001939.htm    
                                Description: A primary care provider (PCP) is a health care practitioner who sees people that have common medical problems. This person is most often a doctor. However, a PCP may be a physician assistant or a nurse    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Choosing a primary care provider

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001939.htm

# Choosing a primary care provider

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A primary care provider (PCP) is a health care practitioner who sees people
that have common medical problems. This person is most often a doctor.
However, a PCP may be a physician assistant or a nurse practitioner. Your PCP
is often involved in your care for a long time. Therefore, it is important to
choose someone with whom you will work well.

## Information

A PCP is your main health care provider in non-emergency situations. Your
PCP's role is to:

      * Provide preventive care and teach healthy lifestyle choices
      * Identify and treat common medical conditions
      * Assess the urgency of your medical problems and direct you to the best place for that care
      * Make referrals to medical specialists when necessary 

Primary care is most often provided in an outpatient setting. However, if you
are admitted to the hospital, your PCP may assist in or direct your care,
depending on the circumstances.

Having a PCP can give you a trusting, ongoing relationship with one medical
professional over time. You can choose from several different types of PCPs:

      *  **Family practitioners:** Doctors who have completed a family practice residency and are board-certified, or board-eligible, for this specialty. The scope of their practice includes children and adults of all ages and may include obstetrics and minor surgery.
      *  **Pediatricians:** Doctors who have completed a pediatric residency and are board-certified, or board-eligible, in this specialty. The scope of their practice includes the care of newborns, infants, children, and adolescents.
      *  **Geriatricians:** Doctors who have completed a residency in either family medicine or internal medicine and are board-certified in this specialty. They often serve as a PCP for older adults with complex medical needs related to aging.
      *  **Internists:** Doctors who have completed a residency in internal medicine and are board-certified, or board-eligible, in this specialty. The scope of their practice includes the care of adults of all ages for many different medical problems.
      *  **Obstetricians/gynecologists:** Doctors who have completed a residency and are board-certified, or board-eligible, in this specialty. They often serve as a PCP for women, particularly those of childbearing age.
      *  **Nurse practitioners (NP) and physician assistants (PA):** Practitioners who go through a different training and certification process than doctors. They may be your PCP in some practices. 

Many insurance plans limit the providers you can choose from, or provide
financial incentives for you to select from a specific list of providers. Make
sure you know what your insurance covers before starting to narrow down your
options.

When choosing a PCP, also consider the following:

      * Is the office staff friendly and helpful? Is the office good about returning calls?
      * Are the office hours convenient to your schedule?
      * How easy is it to reach the provider? Does the provider use email?
      * Do you prefer a provider whose communication style is friendly and warm, or more formal?
      * Do you prefer a provider focused on disease treatment, or wellness and prevention?
      * Does the provider have a conservative or aggressive approach to treatment?
      * Does the provider order a lot of tests?
      * Does the provider refer to other specialists frequently or infrequently?
      * What do colleagues and patients say about the provider?
      * Does the provider invite you to be involved in your care? Does the provider view your patient-provider relationship as a true partnership? 

You can get referrals from:

      * Friends, neighbors, or relatives
      * State-level medical associations, nursing associations, and associations for physician assistants
      * Your dentist, pharmacist, optometrist, previous provider, or other health professional
      * Advocacy groups may be especially helpful to find the best provider for a specific chronic condition or disability
      * Many health plans, such as HMOs or PPOs, have websites, directories, or customer service staff who can help you select a PCP who is right for you 

Another option is to request an appointment to "interview" a potential
provider. There may be no cost to do this, or you may be charged a co-payment
or other small fee. Some practices, particularly pediatric practice groups,
may have an open house where you have an opportunity to meet several of the
providers in that particular group.

If a health care problem comes up and you do not have a primary provider, in
most cases, it is best to seek non-emergency care from an urgent care center
rather than a hospital emergency room. This will often save you time and
money. In recent years, many emergency rooms have expanded their services to
include urgent care within the emergency room itself or an adjoining area. To
find out, call the hospital first.

## Alternative Names

Family doctor - how to choose one; Primary care provider - how to choose one;
Doctor - how to choose a family doctor

## Images

      * ![Patient and doctor work together](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19256t.jpg)Patient and doctor work together
      * ![Types of health care providers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9364t.jpg)Types of health care providers

## References

Goldman L, Schafer AI. Approach to medicine, the patient, and the medical
profession: medicine as a learned and humane profession. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 1.

Rakel RE. Family physician. In: Rakel RE, Rakel D. eds. _Textbook of Family
Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 1.

US Department of Health and Human Services. Choosing a doctor: quick tips.
healthfinder.gov/HealthTopics/Category/doctor-visits/regular-check-
ups/choosing-a-doctor-quick-tips. Updated November 30, 2018. Accessed July 15,
2019.

## Review Date 7/11/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Choosing a Doctor or Health Care
Service](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChoosingaDoctororHealthCareService_thumb.jpg)Choosing
a Doctor or Health Care Service _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

