Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000928.htm    
                                Description: When you seek cancer treatment, you want to find the best care possible. Choosing a doctor and treatment facility is one of the most important decisions you will make.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Choosing a doctor and hospital for your cancer treatment

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000928.htm

# Choosing a doctor and hospital for your cancer treatment

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

When you seek cancer treatment, you want to find the best care possible.
Choosing a doctor and treatment facility is one of the most important
decisions you will make.

Some people choose a doctor first while others may choose a cancer center
first.

As you look for a doctor or a hospital, keep in mind that these are your
choices to make. Make sure that you are comfortable with your decisions.
Finding a doctor and a hospital that you like and that meet your needs will
help you get the best care possible.

## What to Consider When Choosing

Think about what type of doctor and what type of care will work best for you.
Before choosing, meet with a few doctors to see how you get along. You want to
choose a doctor you feel comfortable with.

Some questions you might ask or consider include:

      * Do I want or need a doctor who specializes in my type of cancer?
      * Does the doctor explain things clearly, listen to me, and answer my questions?
      * Do I feel comfortable with the doctor?
      * How many procedures has the doctor performed for my type of cancer?
      * Does the doctor work as part of a larger cancer treatment center?
      * Does the doctor participate in clinical trials?
      * Is there a person in the doctor's office who can help set up appointments and tests, offer suggestions for managing side effects, and provide emotional support? 

If you have health insurance, you should also ask if the doctor accepts your
plan.

## Your Cancer Care Team

You may already have a primary care doctor. Now you need another doctor who
specializes in cancer treatment. This doctor is called an oncologist.

There are many different types of cancer doctors. Often, these doctors work
together as a team, so you will likely work with more than one doctor during
the time of your treatment.

**Medical oncologist.** This doctor is an expert in treating cancer. This is
the person you will see most often. As part of your cancer care team, your
oncologist will help plan, direct, and coordinate your treatment with other
doctors, and manage your overall care. This will be the doctor that prescribes
chemotherapy if needed.

 **Surgical oncologist.** This doctor is a surgeon with special training in
treating cancer. This type of surgeon does biopsies and can also remove tumors
and cancerous tissue. Not all cancers require a specialized surgeon.

**Radiation oncologist.** This is a doctor who specializes in treating cancer
with radiation therapy.

 **Radiologist.** This is a doctor who will be performing and interpreting
different types of x-rays and imaging studies.

You also may work with doctors who:

      * Specialize in your specific type of in the area of the body where your cancer is found
      * Treat complications that occur during cancer treatment 

Other important members of the cancer care team include:

      * Nurse navigators, who help you and your doctor coordinate your care, keep you informed, and are available for questions
      * Nurse practitioners, who work along with your cancer doctors to provide your care 

## Finding a Cancer Doctor

A good place to start is to ask the doctor who diagnosed you. Also make sure
to ask what type of cancer you have and what type of doctor you should see.
You need this information so you know what type of cancer doctor you should
work with. It is a good idea to ask for the names of 2 to 3 doctors, so you
can find the person you feel most comfortable with.

Along with asking your doctor:

      * Ask your health insurance for a list of doctors who treat cancer. It is important to make sure you work with a doctor covered by your insurance.
      * Get a list of doctors from the hospital or cancer treatment facility where you will be receiving treatment. In some cases you may want to choose the facility first, then find a doctor who works there.
      * Ask any friends or family who have experience with cancer for a recommendation. 

You can also check online. The organizations below have searchable databases
of cancer doctors. You can search by location and specialty. You can also see
if the doctor is board certified.

      * American Medical Association -Â doctorfinder.ama-assn.org/doctorfinder/html/patient.jsp
      * American Society of Clinical Oncology - www.cancer.net/find-cancer-doctor

## Finding a Hospital

You will also need to choose a hospital or facility for your cancer treatment.
Depending on your treatment plan, you may be admitted to the hospital or get
care in a clinic or outpatient facility.

Make sure the hospitals you are considering have experience treating the type
of cancer you have. Your local hospital may be fine for more common cancers.
But if you have a rare cancer, you may need to choose a hospital that
specializes in your cancer. In rare cases, you may need to travel to a cancer
center that specializes in your cancer for treatment.

To find a hospital or facility that will meet your needs:

      * Get a list of covered hospitals from your health plan.
      * Ask the doctor who found your cancer for suggestions about hospitals. You can also ask other doctors or health care providers for their ideas.
      * Check the Commission on Cancer (CoC) web site for an accredited hospital near you. CoC accreditation means that a hospital meets certain standards for cancer services and treatments -- www.facs.org/quality-programs/cancer.
      * Check the National Cancer Institute (NCI) web site. You can find listings of NCI-designated cancer centers. These centers provide state-of-the-art cancer treatment. They also may focus on treating rare cancers -- www.cancer.gov/research/nci-role/cancer-centers. 

When choosing a hospital, find out if it takes your health insurance. Other
questions you may want to ask include:

      * Can my cancer doctor provide services at this hospital?
      * How many cases of my type of cancer has this hospital treated?
      * Is this hospital accredited by The Joint Commission (TJC)? The TJC confirms whether hospitals meet a certain level of quality -- www.qualitycheck.org.
      * Is the hospital a member of the Association of Community Cancer Centers? -- www.accc-cancer.org.
      * Does this hospital take part in clinical trials? Clinical trials are studies that test whether a certain medicine or treatment works.
      * If you are looking for cancer care for your child, is the hospital part of the Children's Oncology Group (COG)? The COG focuses on the cancer needs of children -- www.childrensoncologygroup.org/index.php/locations. 

## References

American Cancer Society website. Choosing a doctor and hospital.
www.cancer.org/treatment/findingandpayingfortreatment/choosingyourtreatmentteam/choosing-
a-doctor-and-a-hospital. Updated February 26, 2016. Accessed February 15,
2018.

ASCO Cancer.net website. Choosing a cancer treatment facility.
www.cancer.net/navigating-cancer-care/managing-your-care/choosing-cancer-
treatment-facility. Updated August 2017. Accessed February 15, 2018.

National Cancer Institute website. Finding health care services.
www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/managing-care/services. Updated August 25, 2017.
Accessed February 15, 2018.

Wagner EH, Ludman EJ, Aiello Bowles EJ, et al. Nurse navigators in early
cancer care: a randomized, controlled trial. _J Clin Oncol_. 2014;32(1):12-18.
PMID: 24276777 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24276777.

## Review Date 1/31/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Choosing a Doctor or Health Care Service

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

