Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003630.htm    
                                Description: Sweat electrolytes is a test that measures the level of chloride in sweat. Sweat chloride test is the standard test used to diagnose cystic fibrosis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sweat electrolytes test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003630.htm

# Sweat electrolytes test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sweat electrolytes is a test that measures the level of chloride in sweat.
Sweat chloride test is the standard test used to diagnose cystic fibrosis.

## How the Test is Performed

A colorless, odorless chemical that causes sweating is applied to a small area
on an arm or leg. An electrode is then attached to the spot. A weak electrical
current is sent to the area to stimulate sweating.

People may feel a tingling in the area, or a feeling of warmth. This part of
the procedure lasts for about 5 minutes.

Next, the stimulated area is cleaned and the sweat is collected on a piece of
filter paper or gauze, or in a plastic coil.

After 30 minutes, the collected sweat is sent to a hospital lab to be tested.
The collection takes about 1 hour.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special steps are needed before this test.

## How the Test will Feel

The test is not painful. Some people have a tingling feeling at the site of
the electrode. This feeling may cause discomfort in small children.

## Why the Test is Performed

Sweat testing is the standard method for diagnosing cystic fibrosis. People
with cystic fibrosis have higher amounts of sodium and chloride in their sweat
that are detected by the test.

Some people are tested because of symptoms they are having. In the United
States, newborn screening programs test for cystic fibrosis. The sweat test is
used to confirm these results.

## Normal Results

Normal results include:

      * A sweat chloride test result of less than 30 mmol/L in all populations means cystic fibrosis is less likely.
      * A result between 30 to 59 mmol/L does not give a clear diagnosis. Further testing is needed.
      * If the result is 60 mmol/L or greater, cystic fibrosis is present. 

Note: mmol/L = millimole per liter

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your health care provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

Some conditions, such as dehydration or swelling (edema) can affect the test
results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal test may mean that the child has cystic fibrosis. Results can also
be confirmed by CF gene mutation panel testing.

## Alternative Names

Sweat test; Sweat chloride; Iontophoretic sweat test; CF - sweat test; Cystic
fibrosis - sweat test

## Images

      * ![Sweat test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1939t.jpg)Sweat test
      * ![Sweat test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9955t.jpg)Sweat test

## References

Egan ME, Schechter MS, Voynow JA. Cystic fibrosis. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme
JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 432.

Farrell PM, White TB, Ren CL, et al. Diagnosis of cystic fibrosis: consensus
guidelines from the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation. _J Pediatr_.
2017;181S:S4-S15.e1. PMID: 28129811 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28129811.

Siddiqi HA, Salwen MJ, Shaikh MF, Bowne WB. Laboratory diagnosis of
gastrointestinal and pancreatic disorders. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 22.

## Review Date 4/4/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Children's Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cystic
Fibrosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CysticFibrosis_thumb.jpg)Cystic
Fibrosis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

