Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002437.htm    
                                Description: Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a life-threatening disease that causes thick, sticky mucus to build up in the lungs and digestive tract. People with CF need to eat foods that are high in calories and protein throughout    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cystic fibrosis - nutrition

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002437.htm

# Cystic fibrosis - nutrition

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a life-threatening disease that causes thick, sticky
mucus to build up in the lungs and digestive tract. People with CF need to eat
foods that are high in calories and protein throughout the day.

## Function

The pancreas is an organ in the abdomen behind the stomach. An important job
of the pancreas is to make enzymes. These enzymes help the body digest and
absorb protein and fats. A buildup of sticky mucus in the pancreas from CF can
lead to serious problems, including:

      * Stools that contain mucus, are foul smelling, or float
      * Gas, bloating, or distended belly
      * Problems getting enough protein, fat, and calories in the diet

Because of these problems, people with CF may have a hard time staying at a
normal weight. Even when weight is normal, a person may not be getting the
right nutrition. Children with CF may not grow or develop correctly.

## Recommendations

The following are ways for adding protein and calories to the diet. Be sure to
follow other specific instructions from your health care provider.

Enzymes, vitamins, and salt:

      * Most people with CF must take pancreatic enzymes. These enzymes help your body absorb fat and protein. Taking them all the time will decrease or get rid of foul-smelling stools, gas, and bloating.
      * Take enzymes with all meals and snacks.
      * Talk to your provider about increasing or decreasing your enzymes, depending on your symptoms.
      * Ask your provider about taking vitamins A, D, E, K, and extra calcium. There are special formulas for people with CF.
      * People who live in hot climates may need a small amount of extra table salt.

Eating patterns:

      * Eat whenever you are hungry. This may mean eating several small meals throughout the day.
      * Keep a variety of nutritious snack foods around. Try to snack on something every hour, such as cheese and crackers, muffins, or trail mix.
      * Try to eat regularly, even if it is only a few bites. Or, include a nutrition supplement or milkshake.
      * Be flexible. If you aren't hungry at dinner time, make breakfast, mid-morning snacks, and lunch your main meals. 

Getting more calories and protein:

      * Add grated cheese to soups, sauces, casseroles, vegetables, mashed potatoes, rice, noodles, or meat loaf.
      * Use whole milk, half and half, cream, or enriched milk in cooking or beverages. Enriched milk has nonfat dry milk powder added to it.
      * Spread peanut butter on bread products or use it as a dip for raw vegetables and fruit. Add peanut butter to sauces or use on waffles.
      * Skim milk powder adds protein. Try adding 2 tablespoons (8.5 grams) of dry skim milk powder in addition to the amount of regular milk in recipes.
      * Add marshmallows to fruit or hot chocolate. Add raisins, dates, or chopped nuts and brown sugar to hot or cold cereals, or have them for snacks.
      * A teaspoon (5 g) of butter or margarine adds 45 calories to foods. Mix it into hot foods such as soups, vegetables, mashed potatoes, cooked cereal, and rice. Serve it on hot foods. Hot breads, pancakes, or waffles absorb more butter.
      * Use sour cream or yogurt on vegetables such as potatoes, beans, carrots, or squash. It can also be used as a dressing for fruit.
      * Breaded meat, chicken, and fish have more calories than broiled or plain roasted.
      * Add extra cheese on top of frozen prepared pizza.
      * Add coarsely chopped hard cooked egg and cheese cubes to a tossed salad.
      * Serve cottage cheese with canned or fresh fruit.
      * Add grated cheeses, tuna, shrimp, crabmeat, ground beef, diced ham or sliced boiled eggs to sauces, rice, casseroles, and noodles. 

## References

Egan ME, Green DM, Voynow JA. Cystic fibrosis. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF,
St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 403.

Hollander FM, de Roos NM, Heijerman HGM. The optimal approach to nutrition and
cystic fibrosis: latest evidence and recommendations. _Curr Opin Pulm Med_.
2017;23(6):556-561. PMID: 28991007 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28991007.

Rowe SM, Hoover W, Solomon GM, Sorscher EJ. Cystic fibrosis. In: Broaddus VC,
Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 47.

## Review Date 5/20/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cystic
Fibrosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CysticFibrosis_thumb.jpg)Cystic
Fibrosis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

