Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000169.htm    
                                Description: You had surgery to replace all or part of your hip joint with an artificial joint called a prosthesis. This article tells you what you need to do to care for your new hip when you leave the hospital.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hip replacement - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000169.htm

# Hip replacement - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had surgery to replace all or part of your hip joint with an artificial
joint called a prosthesis. This article tells you what you need to do to care
for your new hip when you leave the hospital.

## When You're in the Hospital

You had a hip joint replacement surgery to replace all or part of your hip
joint with an artificial joint. This artificial joint is called a prosthesis.

## What to Expect at Home

By the time you go home, you should be able to walk with a walker or crutches
without needing much help. Most people do not need them after 2 to 4 weeks.
Check with your health care provider about when to stop using crutches.

You should also be able to dress yourself with only a little help and be able
to get into and out of your bed or a chair by yourself. You should also be
able to use the toilet without much help.

You will need to be careful that you do not dislocate your artificial hip,
especially in the first few months after surgery. You will need to learn
exercises that make your new hip stronger and take special precautions.

You will need to have someone with you at home 24 hours a day for 1 to 2 weeks
after you leave the hospital or rehab center. You will need help preparing
meals, bathing, moving around the house, and doing other daily activities.

Over time, you should be able to return to your former level of activity. You
will need to avoid some sports, such as downhill skiing or contact sports like
football and soccer. But you should be able to do low impact activities, such
as hiking, gardening, swimming, playing tennis, and golfing.

## Home Setup

Your bed should be low enough for your feet to touch the floor when you sit on
the edge of the bed. Your bed should also be high enough so that your hips are
higher than your knees when you sit on the edge. You will not need a hospital
bed, but your mattress should be firm.

Keep tripping hazards out of your home.

      * Learn to prevent falls. Remove loose wires or cords from areas you walk through to get from one room to another. Remove loose throw rugs. DO NOT keep small pets in your home. Fix any uneven flooring in doorways. Use good lighting.
      * Make your bathroom safe. Put hand rails in the bathtub or shower and next to the toilet. Place a slip-proof mat in the bathtub or shower.
      * DO NOT carry anything when you are walking around. You may need your hands to help you balance. 

Put things where they are easy to reach.

Place a chair with a firm back in the kitchen, bedroom, bathroom, and other
rooms you will use. This way, you can sit when you do your daily tasks.

Set up your home so that you do not have to climb steps. Some tips are:

      * Set up a bed or use a bedroom on the first floor.
      * Have a bathroom or a portable commode on the same floor where you spend most of your day. 

## Activity

You will need to be careful to not dislocate your new hip when you are
walking, sitting, lying down, dressing, taking a bath or shower, and doing
other activities. Avoid sitting in a low chair or soft sofa.

Keep moving and walking once you get home. DO NOT put your full weight on your
side with the new hip until your provider tells you it is OK. Start out with
short periods of activity, and then gradually increase them. Your provider or
physical therapist will give you exercises to do at home.

Use your crutches or walker for as long as you need them. Check with your
provider before you stop using them.

After a few days you may be able to do simple household chores. DO NOT try to
do heavier chores, such as vacuuming or laundry. Remember, you will get tired
quickly at first.

Wear a small fanny pack or backpack, or attach a basket or strong bag to your
walker, so that you can keep small household items, like a phone and notepad,
with you.

## Wound Care

Keep your dressing (bandage) on your wound clean and dry. You may change the
dressing according to when your provider told you to change it. Be sure to
change it if it gets dirty or wet. Follow these steps when you change your
dressing:

      * Wash your hands well with soap and water.
      * Remove the dressing carefully. DO NOT pull hard. If you need to, soak some of the dressing with sterile water or saline to help loosen it.
      * Soak some clean gauze with saline and wipe from one end of the incision to the other. DO NOT wipe back and forth over the same area.
      * Dry the incision the same way with clean, dry gauze. Wipe or pat in just 1 direction.
      * Check your wound for signs of infection. These include severe swelling and redness and drainage that has a bad odor.
      * Apply a new dressing the way you were shown. 

Sutures (stitches) or staples will be removed about 10 to 14 days after
surgery. DO NOT shower until 3 to 4 days after your surgery, or when your
provider told you to shower. When you can shower, let water run over your
incision but DO NOT scrub it or let the water beat down on it. DO NOT soak in
a bathtub, hot tub, or swimming pool.

You may have bruising around your wound. This is normal, and it will go away
on its own. The skin around your incision may be a little red. This is normal
too.

## Self-care

Your provider will give you a prescription for pain medicines. Get it filled
when you go home so you have it when you need it. Take your pain medicine when
you start having pain. Waiting too long to take it will allow your pain to get
more severe than it should.

In the early part of your recovery, taking pain medicine about 30 minutes
before you increase your activity can help control pain.

You may be asked to wear special compression stockings on your legs for about
6 weeks. These will help prevent blood clots from forming. You may also need
to take blood thinners for 2 to 4 weeks to lower your risk for blood clots.
Take all your medicines the way your provider told you to. It can make your
bruise go away more easily.

Your provider will tell you when it is OK to start sexual activity again.

People who have a prosthesis, such as an artificial joint, need to carefully
protect themselves against infection. You should carry a medical
identification card in your wallet that says you have a prosthesis. You will
need to take antibiotics before any dental work or invasive medical
procedures. Check with your provider and make sure you tell your dentist that
you had a hip replacement and need antibiotics before any dental work.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have:

      * A sudden increase in pain
      * Chest pain or shortness of breath
      * Frequent urination or burning when you urinate
      * Redness or increasing pain around your incision
      * Drainage from your incision
      * Blood in your stools, or your stools turn dark
      * Swelling in one of your legs (it will be red and warmer than the other leg)
      * Pain in your calf
      * Fever greater than 101Â°F (38.3Â°C)
      * Pain that is not controlled by your pain medicines
      * Nosebleeds or blood in your urine or stools if you are taking blood thinners 

Also call if you:

      * Cannot move your hip as much as you could before
      * Fall or hurt your leg on the side that had surgery
      * Have increased pain in your hip 

## Alternative Names

Hip arthroplasty - discharge; Total hip replacement - discharge; Hip
hemiarthroplasty - discharge; Osteoarthritis - hip replacement discharge

## References

Harkess JW, Crockarell JR. Arthroplasty of the hip. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH,
Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 3.

Rizzo TD. Total hip replacement. In: Frontera WR, Silver JK, Rizzo TD, eds.
_Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 4th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 61.

## Read More

      * Hip joint replacement
      * Hip pain
      * Osteoarthritis

## Patient Instructions

      * Getting your home ready - knee or hip surgery
      * Hip or knee replacement - after - what to ask your doctor 
      * Hip or knee replacement - before - what to ask your doctor 
      * Preventing falls - what to ask your doctor 
      * Taking care of your new hip joint
      * Taking warfarin (Coumadin)

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Hip Replacement

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

