Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007500.htm    
                                Description: Hip arthroscopy is surgery that is done by making small cuts around your hip and looking inside using a tiny camera. Other medical instruments may also be inserted to examine or treat your hip joint.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hip arthroscopy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007500.htm

# Hip arthroscopy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hip arthroscopy is surgery that is done by making small cuts around your hip
and looking inside using a tiny camera. Other medical instruments may also be
inserted to examine or treat your hip joint.

## Description

During arthroscopy of the hip, the surgeon uses a tiny camera called an
arthroscope to see inside your hip.

      * An arthroscope is made up of a tiny tube, a lens, and a light source. A small surgical cut is made to insert it into your body.
      * The surgeon will look inside your hip joint for damage or disease.
      * Other medical instruments may also be inserted through one or two other small surgical cuts. This allows the surgeon to treat or fix certain problems, if needed.
      * Your surgeon may remove extra pieces of bone that are loose in your hip joint, or fix cartilage or other tissues that are damaged. 

Spinal or epidural or general anesthesia will be used in most cases, so you
will not feel pain. You may also be asleep or receive medicine to help you
relax.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

The most common reasons for hip arthroscopy are to:

      * Remove small pieces of bone or cartilage that may be loose inside your hip joint and causing pain.
      * Hip impingement syndrome (also called femoral-acetabular impingement, or FAI). This procedure is done when other treatment has not helped the condition.
      * Repair a torn labrum (a tear in the cartilage that is attached to the rim of your hip socket bone).

Less common reasons for hip arthroscopy are:

      * Hip pain that does not go away and your doctor suspects a problem that hip arthroscopy can fix. Most of the time, your doctor will first inject numbing medicine into the hip to see if the pain goes away.
      * Inflammation in the hip joint that is not responsive to nonoperative treatment.

If you do not have one of these problems, hip arthroscopy will probably not be
useful for treating your hip arthritis.

## Risks

The risks for any anesthesia and surgery are:

      * Allergic reactions to medicines
      * Breathing problems
      * Bleeding
      * Infection

Other risks from this surgery include:

      * Bleeding into the hip joint
      * Damage to the cartilage or ligaments in the hip
      * Blood clot in the leg
      * Injury to a blood vessel or nerve
      * Infection in the hip joint
      * Hip stiffness 
      * Numbness and tingling in the groin and thigh

## Before the Procedure

Always tell your health care provider which drugs you are taking, even drugs,
supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription.

During the 2 weeks before your surgery:

      * You may be asked to stop taking drugs that make it harder for your blood to clot. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Naprosyn, Aleve), blood thinners such as warfarin (Coumadin), and other drugs.
      * Ask your provider which drugs you should still take on the day of your surgery.
      * Tell your provider if you have been drinking a lot of alcohol, more than 1 or 2 drinks a day.
      * If you smoke, try to stop. Ask your providers for help. Smoking can slow down wound and bone healing. 

On the day of your surgery:

      * You will most often be asked not to drink or eat anything for 6 to 12 hours before the procedure.
      * Take the drugs you were told to take with a small sip of water.
      * You will be told when to arrive at the hospital. 

## After the Procedure

Whether you fully recover after hip arthroscopy depends on what type of
problem was treated.

If you also have arthritis in your hip, you will still have arthritis symptoms
after hip surgery.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

After surgery, you will need to use crutches for 2 to 6 weeks.

      * During the first week, you should not place any weight on the side that had surgery.
      * You will slowly be allowed to place more and more weight on the hip that had surgery after the first week.
      * Make sure you check with your surgeon about when you will able to bear weight on your leg. The timeline on the amount of time it takes can vary depending on the type of procedure that was done. 

Your surgeon will tell you when it is OK to return to work. Most people can go
back to work within 1 to 2 weeks if they are able to sit most of the time.

You will be referred to physical therapy to begin an exercise program.

## Alternative Names

Arthroscopy - hip; Hip impingement syndrome - arthroscopy; Femora-acetabular
impingement - arthroscopy; FAI - arthroscopy; Labrum - arthroscopy

## References

Harris JD. Hip arthroscopy. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee, Drez, &
Miller's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 79.

Mijares MR, Baraga MG. Basic arthroscopic principles. In: Miller MD, Thompson
SR, eds. _DeLee, Drez, & Miller's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 8.

## Review Date 7/7/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hip Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HipInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Hip
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Hip
Replacement](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HipReplacement2_thumb.jpg)Hip
Replacement _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

