Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007498.htm    
                                Description: Minimally invasive hip replacement is a technique used to perform hip replacement surgeries. It uses a smaller surgical cut. Also, fewer muscles around the hip are cut or detached.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Minimally invasive hip replacement

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007498.htm

# Minimally invasive hip replacement

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Minimally invasive hip replacement is a technique used to perform hip
replacement surgeries. It uses a smaller surgical cut. Also, fewer muscles
around the hip are cut or detached.

## Description

To perform this surgery:

      * A cut will be made in one of three places -- on the back of the hip (over the buttock), on the front of the hip (near the groin), or on the side of the hip.
      * In most cases, the cut will be 3 to 6 inches (7.5 to 15 centimeters) long. In a regular hip replacement surgery, the cut is 10 to 12 inches (25 to 30 centimeters) long.
      * The surgeon will use special instruments to work through the small cut.
      * Surgery involves cutting and removing bone. The surgeon will remove some muscles and other tissues. Less tissue is removed than in regular surgery. Most of the time, muscles are not cut or detached. 

This procedure uses the same type of hip replacement implants as regular hip
replacement surgery.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

As in regular surgery, this procedure is done to replace or repair a diseased
or damaged hip joint. This technique works better for people who are younger
and thinner. Minimally invasive techniques may allow for a quicker recovery
and less pain.

You may not qualify for this procedure if

      * Your arthritis is quite severe. 
      * You have medical problems that do not allow you to have this surgery.
      * You have a lot of soft tissue or fat so that larger cuts would be needed to access the joint.

Talk with your surgeon about the benefits and risks. Ask if your surgeon has
experience with this type of surgery.

## After the Procedure

People who have this surgery can have a shorter stay in the hospital and
faster recovery. Ask if this procedure is a good choice for you.

## Alternative Names

Small incision total hip replacement; MIS hip surgery

## References

Blaustein DM, Phillips EM. Osteoarthritis. In: Frontera WR, Silver JK, Rizzo
TD Jr, eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 140.

Harkess JW, Crockarell JR. Arthroplasty of the hip. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH,
Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 3.

## Review Date 7/7/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hip
Replacement](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HipReplacement2_thumb.jpg)Hip
Replacement _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

