Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000740.htm    
                                Description: Delirium is sudden severe confusion due to rapid changes in brain function that occur with physical or mental illness.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Delirium

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000740.htm

# Delirium

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Delirium is sudden severe confusion due to rapid changes in brain function
that occur with physical or mental illness.

## Causes

Delirium is most often caused by physical or mental illness, and is usually
temporary and reversible. Many disorders cause delirium. Often, these do not
allow the brain to get oxygen or other substances. They may also cause
dangerous chemicals (toxins) to build up in the brain.Â Delirium is common in
the intensive care unit (ICU), especially in older adults.

Causes include:

      * Alcohol or medicine overdose or withdrawal
      * Drug use or overdose,Â including being sedated in the ICU
      * Electrolyte or other body chemical disturbances
      * Infections such as urinary tract infections or pneumoniaÂ 
      * Severe lack of sleep
      * Poisons
      * General anesthesia and surgery  

## Symptoms

Delirium involves a quick change between mental states (for example, from
lethargy to agitation and back to lethargy).

Symptoms include:

      * Changes in alertness (usually more alert in the morning, less alert at night)
      * Changes in feeling (sensation) and perception
      * Changes in level of consciousness or awareness
      * Changes in movement (for example, may be slow moving or hyperactive)
      * Changes in sleep patterns, drowsiness
      * Confusion (disorientation) about time or place
      * Decrease in short-term memory and recall
      * Disorganized thinking, such as talking in a way that doesn't make sense
      * Emotional or personality changes, such as anger, agitation, depression, irritability, and overly happy
      * Incontinence
      * Movements triggered by changes in the nervous system
      * Problem concentrating

## Exams and Tests

The following tests may have abnormal results:

      * An exam of the nervous system (neurologic examination), including tests of feeling (sensation), thinking (cognitive function), and motor function
      * Neuropsychological studies 

The following tests may also be done:

      * Blood and urine tests
      * Chest x-ray
      * Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis (spinal tap)
      * Electroencephalogram (EEG)
      * Head CT scan
      * Head MRI scan
      * Mental status test 

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to control or reverse the cause of the symptoms.
Treatment depends on the condition causing delirium. The person may need to
stay in the hospital for a short time.

Stopping or changing medicines that worsen confusion, or that are not
necessary, may improve mental function.

Disorders that contribute to confusion should be treated. These may include:

      * Anemia
      * Decreased oxygen (hypoxia)
      * Heart failure
      * High carbon dioxide levels (hypercapnia)
      * Infections
      * Kidney failure
      * Liver failure
      * Nutritional disorders
      * Psychiatric conditions (such as depression or psychosis)
      * Thyroid disorders 

Treating medical and mental disorders often greatly improves mental function.

Medicines may be needed to control aggressive or agitated behaviors. These are
usually started at very low dosages and adjusted as needed.

Some people with delirium may benefit from hearing aids, glasses, or cataract
surgery.

Other treatments that may be helpful:

      * Behavior modification to control unacceptable or dangerous behaviors
      * Reality orientation to reduce disorientation

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Acute conditions that cause delirium may occur with long-term (chronic)
disorders that cause dementia. Acute brain syndromes may be reversible by
treating the cause.

Delirium often lasts about 1 week. It may take several weeks for mental
function to return to normal. Full recovery is common, but depends on the
underlying cause of the delirium.

## Possible Complications

Problems that may result from delirium include:

      * Loss of ability to function or care for self
      * Loss of ability to interact
      * Progression to stupor or coma
      * Side effects of medicines used to treat the disorder

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if there is a rapid change in mental status.

## Prevention

Treating the conditions that cause delirium can reduce its risk. In
hospitalized people, avoiding or using a low dosage of sedatives, prompt
treatment of metabolic disorders and infections, and using reality orientation
programs will reduce the risk of delirium in those at high risk.

## Alternative Names

Acute confusional state; Acute brain syndrome

## Images

      * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system
      * ![Brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1074t.jpg)Brain

## References

Inouye SK. Delirium or acute mental status change in the older patient. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 28.

Irwin SA, Pirrello RD, Hirst JM, Buckholz GT, Ferris FD. Clarifying delirium
management: practical, evidenced-based, expert recommendations for clinical
practice. _J Palliat Med_. 2013;16(4):423-435. PMID: 23480299
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23480299.

Mendez MF, Padilla CR. Delirium. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC,
Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 4.

Oldham MA, Flanagan NM, Khan A, Boukrina O, Marcantonio ER. Responding to ten
common delirium misconceptions with best evidence: an educational review for
clinicians. _J Neuropsychiatry Clin Neurosci_. 2017;30(1):51-57 PMID: 28876970
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28876970.

## Review Date 11/22/2017

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery at
Providence Medical Center, Medford, OR; Department of Surgery at Ashland
Community Hospital, Ashland, OR; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at UCSF,
San Francisco, CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Delirium](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Delirium_thumb.jpg)Delirium _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

