Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000471.htm    
                                Description: Chronic kidney disease is the slow loss of kidney function over time. The main job of the kidneys is to remove wastes and excess water from the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chronic kidney disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000471.htm

# Chronic kidney disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chronic kidney disease is the slow loss of kidney function over time. The main
job of the kidneys is to remove wastes and excess water from the body.

## Causes

Chronic kidney disease (CKD) slowly gets worse over months or years. You may
not notice any symptoms for some time. The loss of function may be so slow
that you do not have symptoms until your kidneys have almost stopped working.

The final stage of CKD is called end-stage renal disease (ESRD). At this
stage, the kidneys are no longer able to remove enough wastes and excess
fluids from the body. At this point, you would need dialysis or a kidney
transplant.

Diabetes and high blood pressure are the 2 most common causes and account for
most cases.

Many other diseases and conditions can damage the kidneys, including:

      * Autoimmune disorders (such as systemic lupus erythematosus and scleroderma)
      * Birth defects of the kidneys (such as polycystic kidney disease)
      * Some toxic chemicals
      * Injury to the kidney
      * Kidney stones and infection
      * Problems with the arteries feeding the kidneys
      * Some medicines, such as pain and cancer drugs
      * Backward flow of urine into the kidneys (reflux nephropathy)

CKD leads to a buildup of fluid and waste products in the body. This condition
affects most body systems and functions, including:

      * High blood pressure
      * Low blood cell count
      * Vitamin D and bone health 

## Symptoms

The early symptoms of CKD are the same as for many other illnesses. These
symptoms may be the only sign of a problem in the early stages.

Symptoms may include:

      * Appetite loss
      * General ill feeling and fatigue
      * Headaches
      * Itching (pruritus) and dry skin
      * Nausea
      * Weight loss without trying to lose weight 

Symptoms that may occur when kidney function has gotten worse include:

      * Abnormally dark or light skin
      * Bone pain
      * Drowsiness or problems concentrating or thinking
      * Numbness or swelling in the hands and feet
      * Muscle twitching or cramps
      * Breath odor
      * Easy bruising, or blood in the stool
      * Excessive thirst
      * Frequent hiccups
      * Problems with sexual function
      * Menstrual periods stop (amenorrhea)
      * Shortness of breath
      * Sleep problems
      * Vomiting 

## Exams and Tests

Most people will have high blood pressure at all stages of CKD. During an
exam, your health care provider may also hear abnormal heart or lung sounds in
your chest. You may have signs of nerve damage during a nervous system exam.

A urinalysis may show protein or other changes in your urine. These changes
may appear 6 to 10 months or more before symptoms appear.

Tests that check how well the kidneys are working include:

      * Creatinine clearance
      * Creatinine levels
      * Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) 

CKD changes the results of several other tests. You will need to have the
following tests as often as every 2 to 3 months when kidney disease gets
worse:

      * Albumin
      * Calcium
      * Cholesterol
      * Complete blood count (CBC)
      * Electrolytes
      * Magnesium
      * Phosphorous
      * Potassium
      * Sodium

Other tests that may be done to look for the cause or type of kidney disease
include:

      * CT scan of the abdomen
      * MRI of the abdomen
      * Ultrasound of the abdomen
      * Kidney biopsy
      * Kidney scan
      * Kidney ultrasound 

This disease may also change the results of the following tests:

      * Erythropoietin
      * Parathyroid hormone (PTH)
      * Bone density test
      * Vitamin D level 

## Treatment

Blood pressure control will slow further kidney damage.

      * Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) are used most often.
      * The goal is to keep blood pressure at or below 130/80 mm Hg. 

Making lifestyle changes can help protect the kidneys, and prevent heart
disease and stroke, such as:

      * DO NOT smoke.
      * Eat meals that are low in fat and cholesterol.
      * Get regular exercise (talk to your doctor or nurse before starting to exercise).
      * Take drugs to lower your cholesterol, if needed.
      * Keep your blood sugar under control.
      * Avoid eating too much salt or potassium. 

Always talk to your kidney specialist before taking any over-the-counter
medicine. This includes vitamins, herbs and supplements. Make sure all of the
providers you visit know you have CKD. Other treatments may include:

      * Medicines called phosphate binders, to help prevent high phosphorous levels
      * Extra iron in the diet, iron pills, iron given through a vein (intravenous iron) special shots of a medicine called erythropoietin, and blood transfusions to treat anemia
      * Extra calcium and vitamin D (always talk to your provider before taking) 

Your provider may have you follow a special diet for CKD.

      * Limiting fluids
      * Eating less protein
      * Restricting phosphorous and other electrolytes
      * Getting enough calories to prevent weight loss 

All people with CKD should be up-to-date on the following vaccinations:

      * Hepatitis A vaccine
      * Hepatitis B vaccine
      * Flu vaccine
      * Pneumonia vaccine (PPV)

## Support Groups

Some people benefit from taking part in a kidney disease support group.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Many people are not diagnosed with CKD until they have lost most of their
kidney function.

There is no cure for CKD. If it worsens to ESRD, and how quickly, depends on:

      * The cause of kidney damage
      * How well you take care of yourself 

Kidney failure is the last stage of CKD. This is when your kidneys can no
longer support our body's needs.

Your provider will discuss dialysis with you before you need it. Dialysis
removes waste from your blood when your kidneys can no longer do their job.

In most cases, you will go to dialysis when you have only 10 to 15% of your
kidney function left.

Even people who are waiting for a kidney transplant may need dialysis while
waiting.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Anemia
      * Bleeding from the stomach or intestines
      * Bone, joint, and muscle pain
      * Changes in blood sugar
      * Damage to nerves of the legs and arms (peripheral neuropathy)
      * Dementia
      * Fluid buildup around the lungs (pleural effusion)
      * Heart and blood vessel complications
      * High phosphorous levels
      * High potassium levels
      * Hyperparathyroidism
      * Increased risk of infections
      * Liver damage or failure
      * Malnutrition
      * Miscarriages and infertility
      * Seizures
      * Swelling (edema)
      * Weakening of the bones and increased risk of fractures

## Prevention

Treating the condition that is causing the problem may help prevent or delay
CKD. People who have diabetes should control their blood sugar and blood
pressure levels and should not smoke.

## Alternative Names

Kidney failure - chronic; Renal failure - chronic; Chronic renal
insufficiency; Chronic kidney failure; Chronic renal failure

## Images

      * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy
      * ![Kidney - blood and urine flow](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1704t.jpg)Kidney - blood and urine flow

## References

Christov M, Sprague SM. Chronic kidney disease - mineral bone disorder. In: Yu
ASL, Chertow GM, Luyckx VA, Marsden PA, Skorecki K, Taal MW, eds. _Brenner and
Rector's The Kidney._ 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 53.

Grams ME, McDonald SP. Epidemiology of chronic kidney disease and dialysis.
In: Feehally J, Floege J, Tonelli M, Johnson RJ, eds. _Comprehensive Clinical
Nephrology._ 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 77.

Taal MW. Classification and management of chronic kidney disease. In: Yu ASL,
Chertow GM, Luyckx VA, Marsden PA, Skorecki K, Taal MW, eds. _Brenner and
Rector's The Kidney._ 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 59.

## Review Date 7/16/2019

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, Nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Chronic Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChronicKidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Chronic
Kidney Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

