Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001134.htm    
                                Description: Gastroesophageal reflux occurs when stomach contents leak backward from the stomach into the esophagus. This causes &quot;spitting up&quot; in infants.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gastroesophageal reflux in infants

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001134.htm

# Gastroesophageal reflux in infants

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Gastroesophageal reflux occurs when stomach contents leak backward from the
stomach into the esophagus. This causes "spitting up" in infants.

## Causes

When a person eats, food passes from the throat to the stomach through the
esophagus. The esophagus is called the food pipe or swallowing tube.

A ring of muscle fibers prevents food at the top of the stomach from moving up
into the esophagus. These muscle fibers are called the lower esophageal
sphincter, or LES. If this muscle does not close well, food can leak back into
the esophagus. This is called gastroesophageal reflux.

A small amount of gastroesophageal reflux is normal in young infants. However,
ongoing reflux with frequent vomiting can irritate the esophagus and make the
infant fussy. Severe reflux that causes weight loss or breathing problems is
not normal.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Cough, especially after eating
      * Excessive crying as if in pain
      * Excessive vomiting during the first few weeks of life; worse after eating
      * Extremely forceful vomiting
      * Not feeding well
      * Refusing to eat
      * Slow growth
      * Weight loss
      * Wheezing or other breathing problems 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider can often diagnose the problem by asking about the
infant's symptoms and doing a physical exam.

Infants who have severe symptoms or are not growing well may need more testing
to find the best treatment.

Tests that may be done include:

      * Esophageal pH monitoring of stomach contents entering the esophagus
      * X-ray of the esophagus
      * X-ray of the upper gastrointestinal system after the baby has been given a special liquid, called contrast, to drink 

## Treatment

Often, no feeding changes are needed for infants who spit up but are growing
well and seem otherwise content.

Your provider may suggest simple changes to help the symptoms such as:

      * Burp the baby after drinking 1 to 2 ounces (30 to 60 milliliters) of formula, or after feeding on each side if breastfeeding.
      * Add 1 tablespoon (2.5 grams) of rice cereal to 2 ounces (60 milliliters) of formula, milk, or expressed breast milk. If needed, change the nipple size or cut a small x in the nipple.
      * Hold the baby upright for 20 to 30 minutes after feeding.
      * Raise the head of the crib. However, your infant should still sleep on the back, unless your provider suggests otherwise. 

When the infant begins to eat solid food, feeding thickened foods may help.

Medicines can be used to reduce acid or increase the movement of the
intestines.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most infants outgrow this condition. Rarely, reflux continues into childhood
and causes esophageal damage.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Aspiration pneumonia caused by stomach contents passing into the lungs
      * Irritation and swelling of the esophagus
      * Scarring and narrowing of the esophagus 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your baby:

      * Is vomiting forcefully and often
      * Has other symptoms of reflux
      * Has problems breathing after vomiting
      * Is refusing food and losing or not gaining weight
      * Is crying often

## Alternative Names

Reflux - infants

## Images

      * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system

## References

Hibs AM. Gastrointestinal reflux and motility in the neonate. In: Martin RJ,
Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal
Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 82.

Khan S, Matta SKR. Gastroesophageal reflux disease. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme
JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 349.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Reflux in
Infants](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RefluxinInfants_thumb.jpg)Reflux in
Infants _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

