Link: https://medlineplus.gov/meningitis.html    
                                Description: Meningitis or spinal meningitis is inflammation of the tissue around the brain and spinal cord. Discover the differences between types of meningitis.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Meningitis

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/meningitis.html

#  Meningitis

Also called: Spinal meningitis

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Women
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Meningitis is inflammation of the thin tissue that surrounds the brain and
spinal cord, called the meninges. There are several types of meningitis. The
most common is viral meningitis. You get it when a virus enters the body
through the nose or mouth and travels to the brain. Bacterial meningitis is
rare, but can be deadly. It usually starts with bacteria that cause a cold-
like infection. It can cause stroke, hearing loss, and brain damage. It can
also harm other organs. Pneumococcal infections and meningococcal infections
are the most common causes of bacterial meningitis.

Anyone can get meningitis, but it is more common in people with weak immune
systems. Meningitis can get serious very quickly. You should get medical care
right away if you have

    * A sudden high fever 
    * A severe headache 
    * A stiff neck 
    * Nausea or vomiting

Early treatment can help prevent serious problems, including death. Tests to
diagnose meningitis include blood tests, imaging tests, and a spinal tap to
test cerebrospinal fluid. Antibiotics can treat bacterial meningitis.
Antiviral medicines may help some types of viral meningitis. Other medicines
can help treat symptoms.

There are vaccines to prevent some of the bacterial infections that cause
meningitis.

NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Start Here

    * Inflamed Brain: Recognizing Encephalitis and Meningitis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
    * Meningitis and Encephalitis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish
    * Meningitis Myths and Facts (National Foundation for Infectious Diseases)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Bacteria Culture Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Blood Culture Test (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
    * Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) Analysis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Lumbar Puncture (Spinal Tap) (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)
    * Procalcitonin Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Ultrasound: Head (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Haemophilus Influenzae Type b (Hib) Vaccine: What You Need to Know (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Meningococcal ACWY Vaccines - MenACWY and MPSV4: What You Need to Know (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine (PCV13): What You Need to Know (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Pneumococcal Polysaccharide Vaccine: What You Need to Know (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Immunization Action Coalition) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Use of Vaccines to Prevent Meningitis in Persons with Cochlear Implants (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Related Issues

    * Travelers' Health: Meningococcal Disease (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Specifics

    * Arachnoiditis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
    * Bacterial Meningitis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Fungal Meningitis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Meningococcal Meningitis (World Health Organization)
    * Non-Infectious Meningitis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Parasitic Meningitis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Subacute and Chronic Meningitis (Merck & Co., Inc.) Also in Spanish
    * Viral Meningitis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Images

    * Meningococcal Photos (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Statistics and Research

    * Treating Meningitis (American Academy of Neurology) \- PDF

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Meningitis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Meningitis, Aseptic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Survival of a case of Bacillus cereus meningitis with brain abscess...
    * Article: Bacterial meningitis: new treatment options to reduce the risk of brain...
    * Article: Virulence Factors of Meningitis-Causing Bacteria: Enabling Brain Entry across the Blood-Brain...
    * Meningitis -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
    * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Children

    * Meningitis (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Risk of Bacterial Meningitis in Children with Cochlear Implants (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

    * Meningitis (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Meningitis (Nemours Foundation)
    * Meningococcal Vaccine: A Guide for Teens (Children's Hospital Boston)

## Women

    * Meningococcal Disease (Bacterial Meningitis) Vaccine and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) collection (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Cerebrospinal fluid culture (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Meningitis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Meningitis - cryptococcal (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Meningitis - gram-negative (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Meningitis - H. influenzae (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Meningococcal ACWY Vaccines - MenACWY and MPSV4: What You Need to Know (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine (PCV13): What You Need to Know (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Pneumococcal Polysaccharide Vaccine: What You Need to Know (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Immunization Action Coalition) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Meningitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Meningitis.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) collection
    * Cerebrospinal fluid culture
    * CSF analysis
    * CSF cell count
    * CSF smear
    * Meningitis
    * Meningitis - cryptococcal
    * Meningitis - gram-negative
    * Meningitis - H. influenzae
    * Meningitis - meningococcal
    * Meningitis - pneumococcal
    * Meningitis - staphylococcal
    * Meningitis - tuberculous
    * Sinus x-ray
    * Subdural effusion
    * Syphilitic aseptic meningitis
    * Waterhouse-Friderichsen syndrome

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

    * Encephalitis
    * Haemophilus Infections
    * Meningococcal Infections
    * Pneumococcal Infections

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Meningitis is the National
Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Meningitis_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 17 September 2019

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

