Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000754.htm    
                                Description: Spitting up is common with babies. Babies may spit up when they burp or with their drool. Spitting up should not cause your baby any distress. Most often babies stop spitting up when they are about 7 to    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Spitting up - self-care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000754.htm

# Spitting up - self-care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Spitting up is common with babies. Babies may spit up when they burp or with
their drool. Spitting up should not cause your baby any distress. Most often
babies stop spitting up when they are about 7 to 12 months old.

## Why Babies Spit up

Your baby is spitting up because:

      * The muscle at the top of your baby's stomach may not be fully developed. So baby's stomach cannot hold in milk.
      * The valve at the bottom of the stomach may be too tight. So the stomach gets too full and milk comes out.
      * Your baby may drink too much milk too fast, and take in a lot of air in the process. These air bubbles fill up the stomach and milk comes out.
      * Overfeeding causes your baby to get too full. So milk comes up.

Spitting up is often not due to a formula intolerance or an allergy to
something in the nursing mother's diet.

## Spitting up is Often Normal

If your baby is healthy, happy, and growing well, you don't need to worry.
Babies that are growing well often gain at least 6 ounces (170 grams) a week
and have wet diapers at least every 6 hours.

## How to Reduce Spitting up

To reduce spitting up you can:

      * Burp your baby several times during and after feeding. To do so sit the baby upright with your hand supporting the head. Let the baby lean forward slightly, bending at the waist. Gently pat your baby's back. (Burping your baby over your shoulder puts pressure on the stomach. This might cause more spitting up.)
      * Try nursing with just one breast per feeding while breastfeeding.
      * Feed smaller amounts of formula more frequently. Avoid large amounts at one time. Be sure that the hole in the nipple is not too large while bottle feeding.
      * Hold your baby upright for 15 to 30 minutes after feeding.
      * Avoid a lot of movement during and immediately after feeding.
      * Slightly elevate the head of babies' cribs so babies can sleep with their heads slightly up.
      * Talk to your baby's health care provider about trying a different formula or removing certain foods from the mother's diet (often cow's milk). 

## When to Call the Doctor

If your baby's spit up is forceful, call your baby's provider. You want to
make sure your baby does not have pyloric stenosis, a problem where the valve
at the bottom of the stomach is too tight and needs to be fixed.

## Images

      * ![Spitting up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9942t.jpg)Spitting up
      * ![Baby burping position](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19651t.jpg)Baby burping position
      * ![Baby spitting up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19693t.jpg)Baby spitting up

## References

Khan S, Orenstein SR. Gastroesophageal reflux disease. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 323.

Liacouras CA. Normal digestive tract phenomena. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF,
St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 305.

Noel RJ. Vomiting and regurgitation. In: Kliegman RM, Lye SP, Bordini BJ, Toth
H, Basel D. _Nelson Pediatric Symptom-Based Diagnosis_. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 12.

US Food & Drug Administration website. Babies spitting up - normal in most
cases. www.fda.gov/ForConsumers/ConsumerUpdates/ucm363693.htm. Updated May 9,
2018. Accessed August 20, 2018.

## Review Date 8/5/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Reflux in Infants

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

