Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000103.htm    
                                Description: Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is a life-threatening lung condition that prevents enough oxygen from getting to the lungs and into the blood. Infants can also have respiratory distress syndrome.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Acute respiratory distress syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000103.htm

# Acute respiratory distress syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is a life-threatening lung
condition that prevents enough oxygen from getting to the lungs and into the
blood. Infants can also have respiratory distress syndrome.

## Causes

ARDS can be caused by any major direct or indirect injury to the lung. Common
causes include:

      * Breathing vomit into the lungs (aspiration)
      * Inhaling chemicals 
      * Lung transplant 
      * Pneumonia
      * Septic shock (infection throughout the body) 
      * Trauma 

Depending on the amount of oxygen in the blood and during breathing, the
severity of ARDS is classified as:

      * Mild
      * Moderate
      * Severe

ARDS leads to a buildup of fluid in the air sacs (alveoli). This fluid
prevents enough oxygen from passing into the bloodstream.

The fluid buildup also makes the lungs heavy and stiff. This decreases the
lungs' ability to expand. The level of oxygen in the blood can stay
dangerously low, even if the person receives oxygen from a breathing machine
(ventilator) through a breathing tube (endotracheal tube).

ARDS often occurs along with the failure of other organ systems, such as the
liver or kidneys. Cigarette smoking and heavy alcohol use may be risk factors
for its development.

## Symptoms

Symptoms usually develop within 24 to 48 hours of the injury or illness.
Often, people with ARDS are so sick they cannot complain of symptoms. Symptoms
can include any of the following:

      * Shortness of breath
      * Fast heartbeat
      * Low blood pressure and organ failure
      * Rapid breathing

## Exams and Tests

Listening to the chest with a stethoscope (auscultation) reveals abnormal
breath sounds, such as crackles, which may be signs of fluid in the lungs.
Often, blood pressure is low. Cyanosis (blue skin, lips, and nails caused by
lack of oxygen to the tissues) is often seen.

Tests used to diagnose ARDS include:

      * Arterial blood gas
      * Blood tests, including CBC (complete blood count) and blood chemistries
      * Blood and urine cultures
      * Bronchoscopy in some people
      * Chest x-ray or CT scan
      * Sputum cultures and analysis
      * Tests for possible infections 

An echocardiogram may be needed to rule out heart failure, which can look
similar to ARDS on a chest x-ray.

## Treatment

ARDS often needs to be treated in an intensive care unit (ICU).

The goal of treatment is to provide breathing support and treat the cause of
ARDS. This may involve medicines to treat infections, reduce inflammation, and
remove fluid from the lungs.

A ventilator is used to deliver high doses of oxygen and positive pressure to
the damaged lungs. People often need to be deeply sedated with medicines.
During treatment, health care providers make every effort to protect the lungs
from further damage. Treatment is mainly supportive until the lungs recover.

Sometimes, a treatment called extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) is
done. During ECMO, blood is filtered through a machine to provide oxygen and
remove carbon dioxide.

## Support Groups

Many family members of people with ARDS are under extreme stress. They can
often relieve this stress by joining support groups where members share common
experiences and problems.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

About one third of people with ARDS die of the disease. Those whoÂ live often
get back most of their normal lung function, but many people have permanent
(usually mild) lung damage.

Many people who survive ARDS have memory loss or other quality-of-life
problems after they recover. This is due to brain damage that occurred when
the lungs were not working properly and the brain was not getting enough
oxygen.

## Possible Complications

Problems that may result from ARDS or its treatment include:

      * Failure of many organ systems
      * Lung damage, such as a collapsed lung (also calledÂ pneumothorax) due to injury from the breathing machine needed to treat the disease
      * Pulmonary fibrosisÂ (scarring of the lung)
      * Ventilator-associated pneumonia

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

ARDS most often occurs during another illness, for which the person is already
in the hospital. In some cases, a healthy person has severe pneumonia that
gets worse and becomes ARDS. If you have trouble breathing, call your local
emergency number (such as 911) or go to the emergency room.

## Alternative Names

Noncardiogenic pulmonary edema; Increased-permeability pulmonary edema; ARDS;
Acute lung injury

## Patient Instructions

      * Colds and the flu - what to ask your doctor - adult
      * Colds and the flu - what to ask your doctor - child
      * When your baby or infant has a fever

## Images

      * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs
      * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Lee WL, Slutsky AS. Acute hypoxemic respiratory failure and ARDS. In: Broaddus
VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of
Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap
100.

Matthay MA, Slutsky AS. Acute respiratory failure. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 104.

Seigel TA. Mechanical ventilation and noninvasive ventilatory support. In:
Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine:
Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
2.

## Review Date 10/23/2017

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron Jr. Associate Professor
of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School of
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by David
Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Respiratory
Failure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RespiratoryFailure_thumb.jpg)Respiratory
Failure _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

