Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000092.htm    
                                Description: Respiratory acidosis is a condition that occurs when the lungs cannot remove all of the carbon dioxide the body produces. This causes body fluids, especially the blood, to become too acidic.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Respiratory acidosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000092.htm

# Respiratory acidosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Respiratory acidosis is a condition that occurs when the lungs cannot remove
all of the carbon dioxide the body produces. This causes body fluids,
especially the blood, to become too acidic.

## Causes

Causes of respiratory acidosis include:

      * Diseases of the airways, such as asthma and COPD
      * Diseases of the lung tissue, such as pulmonary fibrosis, which causes scarring and thickening of the lungs
      * Diseases that can affect the chest, such as scoliosis
      * Diseases affecting the nerves and muscles that signal the lungs to inflate or deflate
      * Medicines that suppress breathing, including powerful pain medicines, such as narcotics, and "downers," such as benzodiazepines, often when combined with alcohol
      * Severe obesity, which restricts how much the lungs can expand
      * Obstructive sleep apnea 

Chronic respiratory acidosis occurs over a long time. This leads to a stable
situation, because the kidneys increase body chemicals, such as bicarbonate,
that help restore the body's acid-base balance.

Acute respiratory acidosis is a condition in which carbon dioxide builds up
very quickly, before the kidneys can return the body to a state of balance.

Some people with chronic respiratory acidosis get acute respiratory acidosis
because an acute illness makes their condition worse and disrupts their body's
acid-base balance.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Confusion
      * Anxiety
      * Easy fatigue
      * Lethargy
      * Shortness of breath
      * Sleepiness
      * Tremors (shaking)
      * Warm and flushed skin
      * Sweating 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about symptoms.

Tests that may be done include:

      * Arterial blood gas, which measures oxygen and carbon dioxide levels in the blood
      * Basic metabolic panel
      * Chest x-ray
      * CT scan of the chest
      * Pulmonary function testÂ to measure breathing and how well the lungs are functioning

## Treatment

Treatment is aimed at the underlying disease, and may include:

      * Bronchodilator medicines and corticosteroids to reverse some types of airway obstruction
      * Noninvasive positive-pressure ventilation (sometimes called CPAP or BiPAP) or a breathing machine, if needed
      * Oxygen if the blood oxygen level is low
      * Treatment to stop smoking
      * For severe cases, a breathing machine might be needed 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you do depends on the disease causing the respiratory acidosis.

## Possible Complications

Complications that may result include:

      * Poor organ function
      * Respiratory failure
      * Shock

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Severe respiratory acidosis is a medical emergency. Seek immediate medical
help if you have symptoms of this condition.

Call your provider if you have symptoms of lung disease that suddenly get
worse.

## Prevention

DO NOT smoke. Smoking leads to the development of many severe lung diseases
that can cause respiratory acidosis.

Losing weight may help prevent respiratory acidosis due to obesity (obesity-
hypoventilation syndrome).

Be careful about taking sedating medicines, and never combine these medicines
with alcohol.

Use your CPAP device regularly if it's been prescribed for you.

## Alternative Names

Ventilatory failure; Respiratory failure; Acidosis - respiratory

## Images

      * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Effros RM, Swenson ER. Acid-base balance. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD,
et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 7.

Seifter JL. Acid-base disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 118.

Strayer RJ. Acid-base disorders. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice._ 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 116.

## Review Date 7/28/2018

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![Respiratory
Failure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RespiratoryFailure_thumb.jpg)Respiratory
Failure _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

