Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000069.htm    
                                Description: Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is scarring or thickening of the lungs without a known cause.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000069.htm

# Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is scarring or thickening of the lungs
without a known cause.

## Causes

Health care providers do not know what causes IPF or why some people develop
it. Idiopathic means the cause is not known. The condition may be due to the
lungs responding to an unknown substance or injury. Genes may play a role in
developing IPF. The disease occurs most often in people between 50 and 70
years old.

## Symptoms

When you have IPF, your lungs become scarred and stiffened. This makes it hard
for you to breathe. In most people, IPF gets worse quickly over months or a
few years. In others, IPF worsens over a much longer time.

Symptoms may include any of the following:

      * Chest pain (sometimes)
      * Cough (usually dry)
      * Not able to be as active as before
      * Shortness of breath during activity (this symptom lasts for months or years, and over time may also occur when at rest) 
      * Feeling faint

## Exams and Tests

The provider will do a physical exam and ask about your medical history. You
will be asked whether you have been exposed to asbestos or other toxins and if
you have been a smoker.

The physical exam may find that you have:

      * Abnormal breath sounds called crackles
      * Bluish skin (cyanosis) around the mouth or fingernails due to low oxygen (with advanced disease)
      * Enlargement and curving of the fingernail bases, called clubbing (with advanced disease) 

Tests that help diagnose IPF include the following:

      * Bronchoscopy
      * Chest CT scan
      * Chest x-ray
      * Echocardiogram
      * Measurements of blood oxygen level (arterial blood gases)
      * Pulmonary function tests
      * 6-minute walk test
      * Tests for autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, or scleroderma
      * Open lung (surgical) lung biopsy 

## Treatment

There is no known cure for IPF.

Treatment is aimed at relieving symptoms and slowing disease progression:

      * Pirfenidone (Esbriet) and nintedanib (Ofev) are two medicines that treat IPF. They may help slow lung damage.
      * People with low blood oxygen levels will need oxygen support at home.
      * Lung rehabilitation will not cure the disease, but it can help people exercise with less difficulty breathing. 

Making home and lifestyle changes can help manage breathing symptoms. If you
or any family members smoke, now is the time to stop.

A lung transplant may be considered for some people with advanced IPF.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a support group. Sharing with
others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel alone.

These organizations are good resources for information on lung disease:

      * American Lung Association --Â www.lung.org
      * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute -- www.nhlbi.nih.gov

## Outlook (Prognosis)

IPF may improve or stay stable for a longtime with or without treatment.Â Most
people get worse, even with treatment.

When breathing symptoms become more severe, you and your provider should
discuss treatments that prolong life, such as lung transplantation. Also
discuss advance care planning.

## Possible Complications

Complications of IPF may include:

      * Abnormally high levels of red blood cells due to low blood oxygen levels
      * Collapsed lung
      * High blood pressure in the arteries of the lungs
      * Respiratory failure
      * Cor pulmonale (right-sided heart failure)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider right away if you have any of the following:

      * Breathing that is harder, faster, or shallower (you are unable to take a deep breath)
      * To lean forward when sitting to breathe comfortably
      * Frequent headaches
      * Sleepiness or confusion
      * Fever
      * Dark mucus when you cough
      * Blue fingertips or skin around your fingernails 

## Alternative Names

Idiopathic diffuse interstitial pulmonary fibrosis; IPF; Pulmonary fibrosis;
Cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis; CFA; Fibrosing alveolitis; Usual
interstitial pneumonitis; UIP

## Patient Instructions

      * Using oxygen at home

## Images

      * ![Spirometry](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1142t.jpg)Spirometry
      * ![Clubbing](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1598t.jpg)Clubbing
      * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Raghu G. Interstitial lung disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 92.

Raghu G, Rochwerg B, Zhang Y, et al. An official ATS/ERS/JRS/ALAT clinical
practice guideline: treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. An update of
the 2011 clinical practice guideline. _Am J Respir Crit Care Med_.
2015;192(2):e3-19. PMID: 26177183 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26177183.

Ryu JH, Selman M, Colby TV, King TE. Idiopathic interstitial pneumonias. In:
Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of
Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap
63.

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pulmonary
Fibrosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PulmonaryFibrosis_thumb.jpg)Pulmonary
Fibrosis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

