Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007242.htm    
                                Description: Babies with heart or lung problems may need to breathe increased amounts of oxygen to get normal levels of oxygen in their blood. Oxygen therapy provides babies with extra oxygen.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Oxygen therapy in infants

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007242.htm

# Oxygen therapy in infants

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Babies with heart or lung problems may need to breathe increased amounts of
oxygen to get normal levels of oxygen in their blood. Oxygen therapy provides
babies with extra oxygen.

## Information

Oxygen is a gas that the cells in your body need to work properly. The air we
breathe normally contains 21% oxygen. We can receive up to 100% oxygen.

HOW IS OXYGEN DELIVERED?

There are several ways to deliver oxygen to a baby. Which method is used
depends on how much oxygen is needed and whether the baby needs a breathing
machine. The baby must be able to breathe without assistance to use the first
three types of oxygen therapy described below.

An oxygen hood or âhead boxâ is used for babies who can breathe on their
own but still need extra oxygen. A hood is a plastic dome or box with warm,
moist oxygen inside. The hood is placed over the baby's head.

A thin, soft, plastic tube called a nasal cannula may be used instead of a
hood. This tube has soft prongs that gently fit into the baby's nose. Oxygen
flows through the tube.

Another method is a nasal CPAP system. CPAP stands for continuous positive
airway pressure. It is used for babies who need more help than they can get
from an oxygen hood or nasal cannula, but do not need a machine to breathe for
them. A CPAP machine delivers oxygen through tubes with soft nasal prongs. The
air is under higher pressure, which helps the airways and lungs stay open
(inflate).

Finally, a breathing machine, or ventilator, may be needed to deliver
increased oxygen and breathe for the baby. A ventilator can give CPAP alone
with nasal prongs, but can also deliver breaths to the baby if the baby is too
weak, tired, or sick to breathe. In this case, the oxygen flows through a tube
placed down the baby's windpipe.

WHAT ARE THE RISKS OF OXYGEN?

Too much or too little oxygen can be harmful. If the cells in the body get too
little oxygen, energy production decreases. With too little energy, cells may
not work well and may die. Your baby may not grow properly. Many of the
developing organs, including the brain and heart, may be injured.

Too much oxygen can also cause injury. Breathing too much oxygen can damage
the lung. For babies who are born very prematurely, too much oxygen in the
blood may also lead to problems in the brain and eye. Babies with certain
heart conditions may also need lower levels of oxygen in the blood.

Your baby's health care providers will closely monitor and try to balance how
much oxygen your baby needs. If you have questions about the risks and
benefits of oxygen for your baby, discuss these with your baby's provider.

WHAT ARE THE RISKS OF OXYGEN DELIVERY SYSTEMS?

Infants receiving oxygen by hood may get cold if the temperature of the oxygen
is not warm enough.

Some nasal cannulas use cool, dry oxygen. At higher flow rates, this can
irritate the inner nose, causing cracked skin, bleeding, or mucus plugs in the
nose. This can increase the risk for infection.

Similar problems can occur with nasal CPAP devices. Also, some CPAP devices
use wide nasal prongs that can change the shape of the nose.

Mechanical ventilators have a number of risks as well. Your baby's providers
will closely monitor and try to balance the risks and benefits of your baby's
breathing support. If you have questions, discuss these with your baby's
provider.

## Alternative Names

Hypoxia - oxygen therapy in infants; Chronic lung disease - oxygen therapy in
infants; BPD - oxygen therapy in infants; Bronchopulmonary dysplasia - oxygen
therapy in infants

## Images

      * ![Oxygen hood](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/21776t.jpg)Oxygen hood 
      * ![Lungs - infant](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/21777t.jpg)Lungs - infant 

## References

Bancalari E, Claure N, Jain D. Neonatal respiratory therapy. In: Gleason CA,
Juul SE, eds. _Avery's Diseases of the Newborn_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 45.

Sarnaik AP, Heidemann SM, Clark JA. Respiratory pathophysiology and
regulation. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 373.

## Review Date 11/11/2018

Updated by: Kimberly G. Lee, MD, MSc, IBCLC, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
Division of Neonatology, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, SC.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![Terapia con
oxÃ­geno](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OxygenTherapy_thumb.jpg)Oxygen
Therapy _Read more_

![Premature
Babies](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PrematureBabies_thumb.jpg)Premature
Babies _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

