Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000176.htm    
                                Description: Mitral regurgitation is a disorder in which the mitral valve on the left side of the heart does not close properly.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mitral valve regurgitation

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000176.htm

# Mitral valve regurgitation

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Mitral regurgitation is a disorder in which the mitral valve on the left side
of the heart does not close properly.

Regurgitation means leaking from a valve that does not close all the way.

## Causes

Mitral regurgitation is the most common type of heart valve disorder.

Blood that flows between different chambers of your heart must flow through a
valve. The valve between the 2 chambers on the left side of your heart is
called the mitral valve.

![Heart valve surgery -
Series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19010.jpg)

When the mitral valve doesn't close all the way, blood flows backward into the
upper heart chamber (atrium) from the lower chamber as it contracts. This cuts
down on the amount of blood that flows to the rest of the body. As a result,
the heart may try to pump harder. This may lead to congestive heart failure.

Mitral regurgitation may begin suddenly. This often occurs after a heart
attack. When the regurgitation does not go away, it becomes long-term
(chronic).

Many other diseases or problems can weaken or damage the valve or the heart
tissue around the valve. You are at risk for mitral valve regurgitation if you
have:

      * Coronary heart disease and high blood pressure
      * Infection of the heart valves
      * Mitral valve prolapse (MVP)
      * Rare conditions, such as untreated syphilis or Marfan syndrome
      * Rheumatic heart disease. This is a complication of untreated strep throat that is becoming less common.
      * Swelling of the left lower heart chamber 

Another important risk factor for mitral regurgitation is past use of a diet
pill called "Fen-Phen" (fenfluramine and phentermine) or dexfenfluramine. The
drug was removed from the market by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) in 1997 because of safety concerns.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may begin suddenly if:

      * A heart attack damages the muscles around the mitral valve.
      * The cords that attach the muscle to the valve break.
      * An infection of the valve destroys part of the valve. 

There are often no symptoms. When symptoms occur, they often develop
gradually, and may include:

      * Cough
      * Fatigue, exhaustion, and lightheadedness
      * Rapid breathing
      * Sensation of feeling the heart beat (palpitations) or a rapid heartbeat
      * Shortness of breath that increases with activity and when lying down
      * Waking up an hour or so after falling asleep because of trouble breathing
      * Urination, excessive at night

## Exams and Tests

When listening to your heart and lungs, the health care provider may detect:

      * A thrill (vibration) over the heart when feeling the chest area
      * An extra heart sound (S4 gallop)
      * A distinctive heart murmur
      * Crackles in the lungs (if fluid backs up into the lungs) 

The physical exam may also reveal:

      * Ankle and leg swelling
      * Enlarged liver
      * Bulging neck veins
      * Other signs of right-sided heart failure 

The following tests may be done to look at the heart valve structure and
function:

      * CT scan of the heart
      * Echocardiogram (an ultrasound examination of the heart) - transthoracic or transesophageal
      * Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 

Cardiac catheterization may be done if heart function becomes worse.

## Treatment

Treatment will depend on what symptoms you have, what condition caused the
mitral valve regurgitation, how well the heart is working, and if the heart
has become enlarged.

People with high blood pressure or a weakened heart muscle may be given
medicines to reduce the strain on the heart and ease symptoms.

The following drugs may be prescribed when mitral regurgitation symptoms get
worse:

      * Beta-blockers, ACE inhibitors, or calcium channel blockers
      * Blood thinners (anticoagulants) to help prevent blood clots in people with atrial fibrillation
      * Drugs that help control uneven or abnormal heartbeats
      * Water pills (diuretics) to remove excess fluid in the lungs 

A low-sodium diet may be helpful. You may need to limit your activity if
symptoms develop.

Once the diagnosis is made, you should visit your provider regularly to track
your symptoms and heart function.

You may need surgery to repair or replace the valve if:

      * Heart function is poor
      * The heart becomes enlarged (dilated)
      * Symptoms get worse 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome varies. Most of the time the condition is mild, so no therapy or
restriction is needed. Symptoms can most often be controlled with medicine.

## Possible Complications

Problems that may develop include:

      * Abnormal heart rhythms, including atrial fibrillation and possibly more serious, or even life-threatening abnormal rhythms
      * Clots that may travel to other areas of the body, such as the lungs or brain
      * Infection of the heart valve
      * Heart failure

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if symptoms get worse or do not improve with treatment.

Also call your provider if you are being treated for this condition and
develop signs of infection, which include:

      * Chills
      * Fever
      * General ill feeling
      * Headache
      * Muscle aches 

## Prevention

People with abnormal or damaged heart valves are at risk for an infection
called endocarditis. Anything that causes bacteria to get into your
bloodstream can lead to this infection. Steps to avoid this problem include:

      * Avoid unclean injections.
      * Treat strep infections quickly to prevent rheumatic fever.
      * Always tell your provider and dentist if you have a history of heart valve disease or congenital heart disease before treatment. Some people may need antibiotics before dental procedures or surgery. 

## Alternative Names

Mitral valve regurgitation; Mitral valve insufficiency; Heart mitral
regurgitation; Valvular mitral regurgitation

## Images

      * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
      * ![Heart - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view
      * ![Heart valve surgery - Series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19010t.jpg)Heart valve surgery - series

## References

Carabello BA. Valvular heart disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 75.

Nishimura RA, Otto CM, Bonow RO, et al. 2017 AHA/ACC focused update of the
2014 AHA/ACC guideline for the management of patients with valvular heart
disease: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart
Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. _Circulation_.
2017;135(25):e1159-e1195. PMID: 28298458 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28298458.

Thomas JD, Bonow RO. Mitral valve disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO,
Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A
Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 69.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart Valve
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartValveDiseases_thumb.jpg)Heart
Valve Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

