Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002954.htm    
                                Description: Heart valve surgery is used to repair or replace diseased heart valves.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heart valve surgery

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002954.htm

# Heart valve surgery

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Heart valve surgery is used to repair or replace diseased heart valves.

Blood that flows between different chambers of your heart must flow through a
heart valve. Blood that flows out of your heart into large arteries must also
flow through a heart valve.

These valves open up enough so that blood can flow through. They then close,
keeping blood from flowing backward.

There are 4 valves in your heart:

      * Aortic valve
      * Mitral valve
      * Tricuspid valve
      * Pulmonic valve

The aortic valve is the most common valve to be replaced. The mitral valve is
the most common valve to be repaired. Only rarely is the tricuspid valve or
the pulmonic valve repaired or replaced.

## Description

Before your surgery, you will receive general anesthesia. You will be asleep
and unable to feel pain.

In open heart surgery, the surgeon makes a large surgical cut in your
breastbone to reach the heart and aorta. You are connected to a heart-lung
bypass machine.Your heart is stopped while you are connected to this machine.
This machine does the work of your heart, providing oxygen and removing carbon
dioxide.

Minimally invasive valve surgery is done through much smaller cuts than open
surgery, or through a catheter inserted through the skin. Several different
techniques are used:

      * Percutaneous surgery (through the skin)
      * Robot-assisted surgery

If your surgeon can repair your mitral valve, you may have:

      * Ring annuloplasty. The surgeon repairs the ring-like part around the valve by sewing a ring of plastic, cloth, or tissue around the valve.
      * Valve repair. The surgeon trims, shapes, or rebuilds one or more of the leaflets of the valve. The leaflets are flaps that open and close the valve. Valve repair is best for the mitral and tricuspid valves. The aortic valve isÂ usually not repaired.

If your valve is too damaged, you will need a new valve. This is called valve
replacement surgery. Your surgeon will remove your valve and put a new one in
place. The main types of new valves are:

      * Mechanical -- made of man-made materials, such as metal (stainless steel or titanium) or ceramic. These valves last the longest, but you will need to take blood-thinning medicine, such as warfarin (Coumadin) or aspirin, for the rest of your life.
      * Biological -- made of human or animal tissue. These valves last 12 to 15 years, but you may not need to take blood thinners for life.

In some cases, surgeons can use your own pulmonic valve to replace the damaged
aortic valve. The pulmonic valve is then replaced with an artificial valve
(this is called the Ross Procedure). This procedure may be useful for people
who do not want to take blood thinners for the rest of their life. However,
the new aortic valve does not last very long and may need to be replaced again
by either a mechanical or a biologic valve.

Related topics include:

      * Aortic valve surgery - minimally invasive
      * Aortic valve surgery - open
      * Mitral valve surgery - minimally invasive
      * Mitral valve surgery - open

## Why the Procedure is Performed

You may need surgery if your valve does not work properly.

      * A valve that does not close all the way will allow blood to leak backwards. This is called regurgitation.
      * A valve that does not open fully will limit forward blood flow. This is called stenosis. 

You may need heart valve surgery for these reasons:

      * Defects in your heart valve are causing major heart symptoms, such as chest pain (angina), shortness of breath, fainting spells (syncope), or heart failure.
      * Tests show that the changes in your heart valve are beginning to seriously affect your heart function.
      * Your doctor wants to replace or repair your heart valve at the same time as you are having open heart surgery for another reason, such as a coronary artery bypass graft surgery.
      * Your heart valve has been damaged by infection (endocarditis).
      * You have received a new heart valve in the past and it is not working well, or you have other problems such as blood clots, infection, or bleeding. 

Some of the heart valve problems treated with surgery are:

      * Aortic insufficiency
      * Aortic stenosis
      * Congenital heart valve disease
      * Mitral regurgitation - acute
      * Mitral regurgitation - chronic
      * Mitral stenosis
      * Mitral valve prolapse
      * Pulmonary valve stenosis
      * Tricuspid regurgitation
      * Tricuspid valve stenosis 

## Risks

The risksÂ of havingÂ cardiac surgery include:

      * Death
      * Heart attack
      * Heart failure
      * Bleeding requiring reoperation
      * Rupture of the heart
      * Irregular heartbeat (arrhythmia)
      * Kidney failure
      * Post-pericardiotomy syndrome -- low fever and chest pain that can last for up to 6 months
      * Stroke or other temporary or permanent brain injury
      * Infection
      * Problems with the breast bone healing
      * Temporary confusion after surgery due to the heart-lung machine

It is very important to take steps to prevent valve infections. You may need
to take antibiotics before dental work and other invasive procedures.

## Before the Procedure

Your preparation for the procedure will depend on the type of valve surgery
you are having:

      * Aortic valve surgery - minimally invasive
      * Aortic valve surgery - open
      * Mitral valve surgery - minimally invasive
      * Mitral valve surgery - open

## After the Procedure

Your recovery after the procedure will depend on the type of valve surgery you
are having:

      * Aortic valve surgery - minimally invasive
      * Aortic valve surgery - open
      * Mitral valve surgery - minimally invasive
      * Mitral valve surgery - open

The average hospital stay is 5 to 7 days. The nurse will tell you how to care
for yourself at home. Complete recovery will take a few weeks to several
months, depending on your health before surgery.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The success rate of heart valve surgery is high. The operation can relieve
your symptoms and prolong your life.

Mechanical heart valves do not often fail. However, blood clots can develop on
these valves. If a blood clot forms, you may have a stroke. Bleeding can
occur, but this is rare. Tissue valves last an average of 12 to 15 years,
depending on the type of valve. Long-term use of blood thinning medicine is
most often not needed withÂ tissue valves.

There is always a riskÂ for infection. Talk to your doctor before having any
type of medical procedure.

The clicking of mechanical heart valves may be heard in the chest. This is
normal.

## Alternative Names

Valve replacement; Valve repair; Heart valve prosthesis; Mechanical valves;
Prosthetic valves

## Patient Instructions

      * Heart valve surgery - discharge 

## Images

      * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
      * ![Heart - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view
      * ![Heart valves - anterior view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18092t.jpg)Heart valves - anterior view
      * ![Heart valves - superior view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18093t.jpg)Heart valves - superior view
      * ![Heart valve surgery - Series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19010t.jpg)Heart valve surgery - series

## References

Bernstein D. General principles of treatment of congenital heart disease. In:
Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 434.

Nishimura. RA, Otto CM, Bonow RO, et al. Focused update of the 2014 AHA/ACC
guideline for the management of patients with valvular heart disease: a report
of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on
Practice Guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2017;70(2):252-289. PMID: 28315732
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28315732.

Otto CM, Bonow RO. Valvular heart disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO,
Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A
Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2019:chap 67.

Rosengart TK, Anand J. Acquired heart disease: valvular. In: Townsend CM Jr,
Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 60.

## Review Date 5/15/2018

Updated by: Mary C. Mancini, MD, PhD, Director, Cardiothoracic Surgery,
Christus Highland Medical Center, Shreveport, LA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart Surgery](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartSurgery_thumb.jpg)Heart
Surgery _Read more_

![Heart Valve
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartValveDiseases_thumb.jpg)Heart
Valve Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

