Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000179.htm    
                                Description: Aortic regurgitation is a heart valve disease in which the aortic valve does not close tightly. This allows blood to flow from the aorta (the largest blood vessel) into the left ventricle (a chamber of    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aortic regurgitation

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000179.htm

# Aortic regurgitation

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Aortic regurgitation is a heart valve disease in which the aortic valve does
not close tightly. This allows blood to flow from the aorta (the largest blood
vessel) into the left ventricle (a chamber of the heart).

![Aortic insufficiency](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18074.jpg)

## Causes

Any condition that prevents the aortic valve from closing completely can cause
this problem. When the valve does not close all the way, some blood comes back
each time the heart beats.

When a large amount of blood comes back, the heart must work harder to force
out enough blood to meet the body's needs. The left lower chamber of the heart
widens (dilates) and the heart beats very strongly (bounding pulse). Over
time, the heart becomes less able to supply enough blood to the body.

In the past, rheumatic fever was the main cause of aortic regurgitation. The
use of antibiotics to treat strep infections has made rheumatic fever less
common. Therefore, aorticÂ regurgitation is more commonly due to other causes.
These include:

      * Ankylosing spondylitis
      * Aortic dissection
      * Congenital (present at birth) valve problems, such as bicuspid valve
      * EndocarditisÂ (infection of the heart valves)
      * High blood pressure
      * Marfan syndrome
      * Reiter syndrome (also known as reactive arthritis)
      * Syphilis
      * Systemic lupus erythematosus
      * Trauma to the chest 

Aortic insufficiency is most common in men between the ages of 30 and 60.

## Symptoms

The condition often has no symptoms for many years. Symptoms may come on
slowly or suddenly. They may include:

      * Bounding pulse
      * Chest pain similar to angina (rare)
      * Fainting
      * Fatigue
      * Palpitations (sensation of the heart beating)
      * Shortness of breath with activity or when lying down
      * Waking up short of breath some time after falling asleep
      * Swelling of the feet, legs, or abdomen
      * Uneven, rapid, racing, pounding, or fluttering pulse
      * Weakness that is more likely to occur with activity 

## Exams and Tests

Signs may include:

      * Heart murmur that can be heard through a stethoscope
      * Very forceful beating of the heart
      * Bobbing of the head in time with the heartbeat
      * Hard pulses in the arms and legs
      * Low diastolic blood pressure
      * Signs of fluid in the lungs 

Aortic regurgitation may be seen on tests such as:

      * Aortic angiography
      * Echocardiogram \- ultrasound examination of the heart
      * Left heart catheterization
      * MRI of the heart
      * Transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE)Â or transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE) 

A chest x-ray may show swelling of the left lower heart chamber.

Lab tests cannot diagnose aortic insufficiency. However, they may help rule
out other causes.

## Treatment

You may not need treatment if you have no symptoms or only mild symptoms.
However, you will need to see a health care provider for regular
echocardiograms.

If your blood pressure is high, you may need to take blood pressure medicines
to help slow the worsening of aortic regurgitation.

Diuretics (water pills) may be prescribed for symptoms of heart failure.

In the past, most people with heart valve problems were given antibiotics
before dental work or an invasive procedure, such as colonoscopy. The
antibiotics were given to prevent an infection of the damaged heart. However,
antibiotics are now used much less often.

You may need to limit activity that requires more work from your heart. Talk
to your provider.

Surgery to repair or replace the aortic valve corrects aortic regurgitation.
The decision to have aortic valve replacement depends on your symptoms and the
condition and function of your heart.

You may also need surgery to repair the aorta if it is widened.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Surgery can cure aortic insufficiency and relieve symptoms, unless you develop
heart failure or other complications. People with angina or congestive heart
failure due to aortic regurgitation do poorly without treatment.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Abnormal heart rhythms
      * Heart failure
      * Infection in the heart

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You have symptoms of aortic regurgitation.
      * You have aortic insufficiency and your symptoms worsen or new symptoms develop (especially chest pain, difficulty breathing, or swelling). 

## Prevention

Blood pressure control is very important if you are at risk for aortic
regurgitation.

## Alternative Names

Aortic valve prolapse; Aortic insufficiency; Heart valve - aortic
regurgitation; Valvular disease - aortic regurgitation; AI - aortic
insufficiency

## Images

      * ![Aortic insufficiency](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18074t.jpg)Aortic insufficiency

## References

Carabello BA. Valvular heart disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 75.

Lindman BR, Bonow RO, Otto CM. Aortic valve disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2019:chap 68.

Nishimura RA, Otto CM, Bonow RO, et al. 2017 AHA/ACC focused update of the
2014 AHA/ACC guideline for the management of patients with valvular heart
disease: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart
Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. _Circulation_.
2017;135(25):e1159-e1195. PMID: 28298458 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28298458.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart Valve
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartValveDiseases_thumb.jpg)Heart
Valve Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

