Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000169.htm    
                                Description: Blood that flows between different chambers of your heart must pass through a heart valve. These valves open up enough so that blood can flow through. They then close, keeping blood from flowing backward.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tricuspid regurgitation

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000169.htm

# Tricuspid regurgitation

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Blood that flows between different chambers of your heart must pass through a
heart valve. These valves open up enough so that blood can flow through. They
then close, keeping blood from flowing backward.

The tricuspid valve separates the right lower heart chamber (the right
ventricle) from the right upper heart chamber (right atrium).

Tricuspid regurgitation is a disorder in which this valve does not close tight
enough. This problem causes blood to flow backward into the right upper heart
chamber (atrium) when the right lower heart chamber (ventricle) contracts.

![Tricuspid
Regurgitation](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18091.jpg)

## Causes

An increase in size of the right ventricle is the most common cause of this
condition. The right ventricle pumps blood to the lungs where it picks up
oxygen. Any condition that puts extra strain on this chamber can cause it to
enlarge. Examples include:

      * Abnormally high blood pressure in the arteries of the lungs which can come from a lung problem (such as COPD, or a clot that has traveled to the lungs)Â 
      * Other heart problem such as poor squeezing of the left side of the heart
      * Problem with the opening or closing of another one of the heart valves 
![Tricuspid
Regurgitation](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18090.jpg)

Tricuspid regurgitation may also be caused or worsened by infections, such as:

      * Rheumatic fever
      * Infection of the tricuspid heart valve, which causes damage to the valve 
![Ebstein's anomaly](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/22703.jpg)

Less common causes of tricuspid regurgitation include:

      * A type of heart defect present at birth called Ebstein anomaly.
      * Carcinoid tumors, which release a hormone that damages the valve.
      * Marfan syndrome.
      * Rheumatoid arthritis.
      * Radiation therapy.
      * Past use of a diet pill called "Fen-Phen" (phentermine and fenfluramine) or dexfenfluramine. The drug was removed from the market in 1997. 
.

## Symptoms

Mild tricuspid regurgitation may not cause any symptoms. Symptoms of heart
failure may occur, and can include:

      * Active pulsing in the neck veins
      * Decreased urine output
      * Fatigue, tiredness
      * General swelling
      * Swelling of the abdomen
      * Swelling of the feet and ankles
      * Weakness

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider may find abnormalities when gently pressing with the
hand (palpating) on your chest. The provider may also feel a pulse over your
liver. The physical exam may show liver and spleen swelling.

Listening to the heart with a stethoscope may reveal a murmur or other
abnormal sounds. There may be signs of fluid buildup in the abdomen.

An ECG or echocardiogram may show enlargement of the right side of the heart.
Doppler echocardiography or right-sided cardiac catheterization may be used to
measure blood pressure inside the heart and lungs.

Other tests, such as CT scan or MRI of the chest (heart), may reveal
enlargement of the right side of the heart and other changes.

## Treatment

Treatment may not be needed if there are few or no symptoms. You may need to
go to the hospital to diagnose and treat severe symptoms.

Swelling and other symptoms of heart failure may be managed with medicines
that help remove fluids from the body (diuretics).

Some people may be able to have surgery to repair or replace the tricuspid
valve. Surgery is most often done as part of another procedure.

Treatment of certain conditions may correct this disorder. These include:

      * High blood pressure in the lungs
      * Swelling of the right lower heart chamber 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Surgical valve repair or replacement most often provides a cure in people who
need an intervention.

The outlook is poor for people who have symptomatic, severe tricuspid
regurgitation that cannot be corrected.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of tricuspid regurgitation.

## Prevention

People with abnormal or damaged heart valves are at risk for an infection
called endocarditis. Anything that causes bacteria to get into your
bloodstream may lead to this infection. Steps to avoid this problem include:

      * Avoid unclean injections.
      * Treat strep infections promptly to prevent rheumatic fever.
      * Always tell your health care provider and dentist if you have a history of heart valve disease or congenital heart disease before treatment. Some people may need to take antibiotics before having a procedure. 

Prompt treatment of disorders that can cause valve or other heart diseases
reduces your risk of tricuspid regurgitation.

## Alternative Names

Tricuspid insufficiency; Heart valve - tricuspid regurgitation; Valvular
disease - tricuspid regurgitation

## Images

      * ![Tricuspid Regurgitation](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18091t.jpg)Tricuspid Regurgitation
      * ![Tricuspid Regurgitation](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18090t.jpg)Tricuspid Regurgitation
      * ![Ebstein's anomaly](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22703t.jpg)Ebstein's anomaly

## References

Carabello BA. Valvular heart disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 75.

Nishimura RA, Otto CM, Bonow RO, et al. 2017 AHA/ACC focused update of the
2014 AHA/ACC guideline for the management of patients with valvular heart
disease: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart
Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. _Circulation_.
2017;135(25):e1159-e1195. PMID: 28298458Â Â
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28298458.

Pelikka PA. Tricuspid, pulmonic, and multivalvular disease. In: Zipes DP,
Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2019:chap 70.

Rosengart TK, Anand J. Acquired heart disease: valvular. In: Townsend CM Jr,
Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 60.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart Valve
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartValveDiseases_thumb.jpg)Heart
Valve Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

