Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000175.htm    
                                Description: Mitral stenosis is a disorder in which the mitral valve does not fully open. This restricts the flow of blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mitral stenosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000175.htm

# Mitral stenosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Mitral stenosis is a disorder in which the mitral valve does not fully open.
This restricts the flow of blood.

![Mitral stenosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18147.jpg)

## Causes

Blood that flows between different chambers of your heart must flow through a
valve. The valve between the 2 chambers on the left side of your heart is
called the mitral valve. It opens up enough so that blood can flow from the
upper chamber of your heart (left atria) to the lower chamber (left
ventricle). It then closes, keeping blood from flowing backwards.

Mitral stenosis means that the valve cannot open enough. As a result, less
blood flows to the body. The upper heart chamber swells as pressure builds up.
Blood and fluid may then collect in the lung tissue (pulmonary edema), making
it hard to breathe.

In adults, mitral stenosis occurs most often in people who have had rheumatic
fever. This is a disease that can develop after an illness with strep throat
that was not properly treated.

The valve problems develop 5 to 10 years or more after having rheumatic fever.
Symptoms may not show up for even longer. Rheumatic fever is becoming rare in
the United States because strep infections are most often treated. This has
made mitral stenosis less common.

Rarely, other factors can cause mitral stenosis in adults. These include:

      * Calcium deposits forming around the mitral valve
      * Radiation treatment to the chest
      * Some medicines 

Children may be born with mitral stenosis (congenital) or other birth defects
involving the heart that cause mitral stenosis. Often, there are other heart
defects present along with the mitral stenosis.

Mitral stenosis may run in families.

## Symptoms

Adults may have no symptoms. However, symptoms may appear or get worse with
exercise or other activity that raises the heart rate. Symptoms will most
often develop between ages 20 and 50.

Symptoms may begin with an episode of atrial fibrillation (especially if it
causes a fast heart rate). Symptoms may also be triggered by pregnancy or
other stress on the body, such as infection in the heart or lungs, or other
heart disorders.

Symptoms may include:

      * Chest discomfort that increases with activity and extends to the arm, neck, jaw or other areas (this is rare)
      * Cough, possibly with bloody phlegm
      * Difficulty breathing during or after exercise (This is the most common symptom.)
      * Waking up due to breathing problems or when lying in a flat position
      * Fatigue
      * Frequent respiratory infections, such as bronchitis
      * Feeling of pounding heart beat (palpitations)
      * Swelling of feet or ankles 

In infants and children, symptoms may be present from birth (congenital). It
will almost always develop within the first 2 years of life. Symptoms include:

      * Cough
      * Poor feeding, or sweating when feeding
      * Poor growth
      * Shortness of breath 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will listen to the heart and lungs with a
stethoscope. A murmur, snap, or other abnormal heart sound may be heard. The
typical murmur is a rumbling sound that is heard over the heart during the
resting phase of the heartbeat. The sound often gets louder just before the
heart begins to contract.

The exam may also reveal an irregular heartbeat or lung congestion. Blood
pressure is most often normal.

Narrowing or blockage of the valve or swelling of the upper heart chambers may
be seen on:

      * Chest x-ray
      * CT scan of the heart
      * Echocardiogram
      * ECG (electrocardiogram)
      * MRI of the heart
      * Transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE)

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the symptoms and condition of the heart and lungs. People
with mild symptoms or none at all may not need treatment. For severe symptoms,
you may need to go to the hospital for diagnosis and treatment.

Medicines which can be used to treat symptoms of heart failure, high blood
pressure and to slow or regulate heart rhythms include:

      * Diuretics (water pills)
      * Nitrates, beta-blockers
      * Calcium channel blockers
      * ACE inhibitors
      * Angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs)
      * Digoxin
      * Drugs to treat abnormal heart rhythms 

Anticoagulants (blood thinners) are used to prevent blood clots from forming
and traveling to other parts of the body.

Antibiotics may be used in some cases of mitral stenosis. People who have had
rheumatic fever may need long-term preventive treatment with an antibiotic
such as penicillin.

In the past, most people with heart valve problems were given antibiotics
before dental work or invasive procedures, such as colonoscopy. The
antibiotics were given to prevent an infection of the damaged heart valve.
However, antibiotics are now used much less often. Ask your doctor whether you
need to use antibiotics.

Some people may need heart surgery or procedures to treat mitral stenosis.
These include:

      * Percutaneous mitral balloon valvotomy (also called valvuloplasty). During this procedure, a tube (catheter) is inserted into a vein, usually in the leg. It is threaded up into the heart. A balloon on the tip of the catheter is inflated, widening the mitral valve and improving blood flow. This procedure may be tried instead of surgery in people with a less damaged mitral valve (especially if the valve does not leak very much). Even when successful, the procedure may need to be repeated months or years later.
      * Surgery to repair or replace the mitral valve. Replacement valves can be made from different materials. Some may last for decades, and others can wear out and need to be replaced. 

Children often need surgery to either repair or replace the mitral valve.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome varies. The disorder may be mild, without symptoms, or may be more
severe and become disabling over time. Complications may be severe or life
threatening. In most cases, mitral stenosis can be controlled with treatment
and improved with valvuloplasty or surgery.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter
      * Blood clots to the brain (stroke), intestines, kidneys, or other areas
      * Congestive heart failure
      * Pulmonary edema
      * Pulmonary hypertension 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You have symptoms of mitral stenosis.
      * You have mitral stenosis and symptoms do not improve with treatment, or new symptoms appear.

## Prevention

Follow your provider's recommendations for treating conditions that can cause
valve disease. Treat strep infections promptly to prevent rheumatic fever.
Tell your provider if you have a family history of congenital heart diseases.

Other than treating strep infections, mitral stenosis itself often cannot be
prevented. However but complications from the condition can be prevented. Tell
your provider about your heart valve disease before you receive any medical
treatment. Discuss whether you need preventive antibiotics.

## Alternative Names

Mitral valve obstruction; Heart mitral stenosis; Valvular mitral stenosis

## Images

      * ![Mitral stenosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18147t.jpg)Mitral stenosis
      * ![Heart valves](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9380t.jpg)Heart valves
      * ![Heart valve surgery - Series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19010t.jpg)Heart valve surgery - series

## References

Carabello BA. Valvular heart disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 75.

Nishimura RA, Otto CM, Bonow RO, et al. 2017 AHA/ACC focused update of the
2014 AHA/ACC guideline for the management of patients with valvular heart
disease: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart
Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. _Circulation_.
2017;135(25):e1159-e1195. PMID: 28298458 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28298458.

Thomas JD, Bonow RO. Mitral valve disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO,
Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A
Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 69.

Wilson W, Taubert KA, Gewitz M, et al. Prevention of infective endocarditis:
guidelines from the American Heart Association: a guideline from the American
Heart Association Rheumatic Fever, Endocarditis, and Kawasaki Disease
Committee, Council on Cardiovascular Disease in the Young, and the Council on
Clinical Cardiology, Council on Cardiovascular Surgery and Anesthesia, and the
Quality of Care and Outcomes Research Interdisciplinary Working Group.
_Circulation_. 2007;116(15):1736-1754. PMID: 17446442
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17446442.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart Valve
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartValveDiseases_thumb.jpg)Heart
Valve Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

