Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007684.htm    
                                Description: Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) is a procedure used to replace the aortic valve without opening the chest. It is used to treat adults who aren    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Transcatheter aortic valve replacement

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007684.htm

# Transcatheter aortic valve replacement

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) is a procedure used to replace
the aortic valve without opening the chest. It is used to treat adults who
aren't healthy enough for regular valve surgery.

The aorta is a large artery that carries blood from your heart to the rest of
your body. Blood flows out of your heart and into the aorta through a valve.
This valve is called the aortic valve. It opens up so blood can flow out. It
then closes, keeping blood from flowing backwards.

An aortic valve that does not open fully will restrict blood flow. This is
called aortic stenosis. If there is also a leak, it is called aortic
regurgitation. Most aortic valves are replaced because they restrict flow
forward through the aorta to the brain and body.

## Description

The procedure will be done in a hospital. It will take about 2 to 4 hours.

      * Before your surgery, you may receive general anesthesia. This will put you in a pain-free sleep. Most often, the procedure is done with you heavily sedated. You are not completely asleep but you do not feel pain. This is called moderate sedation.
      * If general anesthesia is used, you will have a tube put down your throat connected to a machine to help you breathe. This is generally removed after the procedure. If moderate sedation is used, no breathing tube is needed. 
      * The doctor will make a cut (incision) in an artery in your groin or in your chest near your breast bone.
      * If you don't already have a pacemaker, the doctor may put one in. You will wear it for 48 hours after the surgery. A pacemaker helps your heart beat in a regular rhythm.
      * The doctor will thread a thin tube called a catheter through the artery to your heart and aortic valve.
      * A small balloon on the end of the catheter will be expanded in your aortic valve. This is called the valvuloplasty.
      * The doctor will then guide a new aortic valve over the catheter and balloon and place it in your aortic valve. A biological valve is used for TAVR.
      * The new valve will be opened inside the old valve. It will do the work of the old valve.
      * The doctor will remove the catheter and close the cut with stitches and a dressing.
      * You do not need to be on a heart-lung machine for this procedure.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

TAVR is used for people with severe aortic stenosis who aren't healthy enough
to have open chest surgery to replace a valve.

In adults, aortic stenosis is most often due to calcium deposits that narrow
the valve. This generally affects older people.

TAVR may be done for these reasons:

      * You are having major heart symptoms, such as chest pain (angina), shortness of breath, fainting spells (syncope), or heart failure.
      * Tests show that changes in your aortic valve are beginning to seriously harm how well your heart works.
      * You can't have regular valve surgery because it would put your health at risk. (Note: Studies are being performed to see whether more patients could be helped by the surgery.)

This procedure has many benefits. There is less pain, blood loss, and risk of
infection. You will also recover faster than you would from open-chest
surgery.

## Risks

Risks of any anesthesia are:

      * Bleeding
      * Blood clots in the legs that may travel to the lungs
      * Breathing problems
      * Infection, including in the lungs, kidneys, bladder, chest, or heart valves
      * Reactions to medicines

Other risks are:

      * Damage to blood vessels
      * You may need open heart surgery to correct complications that arise during the procedure
      * Heart attack or stroke
      * Infection of the new valve
      * Kidney failure
      * Abnormal heartbeat
      * Bleeding
      * Poor healing of incision
      * Death

## Before the Procedure

Always tell your doctor or nurse what medicines you are taking, including
over-the counter medicines, supplements, or herbs.

You should see your dentist to make sure there are no infections in your
mouth. If untreated, these infections may spread to your heart or new heart
valve.

For the 2-week period before surgery, you may be asked to stop taking
medicines that make it harder for your blood to clot. These might cause
increased bleeding during the surgery.

      * Some of them are aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), and naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn).
      * If you are taking warfarin (Coumadin) or clopidogrel (Plavix), talk with your surgeon before stopping or changing how you take these drugs.

During the days before your procedure:

      * Ask your doctor which medicines you should still take on the day of your procedure.
      * If you smoke, you must stop. Ask your doctor for help.
      * Always let your doctor know if you have a cold, flu, fever, herpes breakout, or any other illness in the time leading up to your procedure.
      * On the day before your procedure, shower and shampoo well. You may be asked to wash your whole body below your neck with a special soap. Scrub your chest 2 or 3 times with this soap. You also may be asked to take an antibiotic to prevent infection.

On the day of your surgery:

      * You will usually be asked not to drink or eat anything after midnight the night before your procedure. This includes chewing gum and using breath mints. Rinse your mouth with water if it feels dry, but be careful not to swallow.
      * Take the medicines your doctor told you to take with a small sip of water.
      * Your doctor or nurse will tell you when to arrive at the hospital.

## After the Procedure

You can expect to spend 1 to 4 days in the hospital.

You will spend the first night in an intensive care unit (ICU). Nurses will
monitor you closely. Usually within 24 hours, you will be moved to a regular
room or a transitional care unit in the hospital.

The day after surgery, you will be helped out of bed so you can get up and
move around. You may begin a program to make your heart and body stronger.

Your health care providers will show you how to care for yourself at home. You
will learn how to bathe yourself and care for the surgical wound. You will
also be given instructions for diet and exercise. Be sure to take any
medicines as prescribed. You may need to take blood thinners for the rest of
your life.

Your doctor will have you come in for a follow-up appointment to check that
the new valve is working well.

Be sure to tell any of your providers that you have had a valve replacement.
Be sure to do this before having any medical or dental procedures.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Having this procedure can improve the quality of your life and help you live
longer than you might without the procedure. You may breathe easier and have
more energy. You may be able to do things you couldn't do before because your
heart is able to pump oxygen-rich blood to the rest of your body.

It's unclear how long the new valve will keep working, so be sure to see your
doctor for regular appointments.

## Alternative Names

Valvuloplasty - aortic; TAVR; Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI)

## References

Arsalan M, Kim W-K, Walther T. Transcatheter aortic valve replacement. In:
Sellke FW, Ruel M, eds. _Atlas of Cardiac Surgical Techniques_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 16.

Herrmann HC, Mack MJ. Transcatheter therapies for valvular heart disease. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 72.

Lindman BR, Bonow RO, Otto CM. Aortic valve disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 68.

Thourani VH, Iturra S, Sarin EL. Transcatheter aortic valve replacement. In:
Sellke FW, del Nido PJ, Swanson SJ, eds. _Sabiston and Spencer Surgery of the
Chest_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 79.

## Review Date 7/9/2018

Updated by: Mary C. Mancini, MD, PhD, Director, Cardiothoracic Surgery,
Christus Highland Medical Center, Shreveport, LA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart Valve
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartValveDiseases_thumb.jpg)Heart
Valve Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

