Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000291.htm    
                                Description: Heart valve surgery is used to repair or replace diseased heart valves. Your surgery may have been done through a large incision (cut) in the middle of your chest, through a smaller cut between your ribs    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heart valve surgery - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000291.htm

# Heart valve surgery - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Heart valve surgery is used to repair or replace diseased heart valves. Your
surgery may have been done through a large incision (cut) in the middle of
your chest, through a smaller cut between your ribs or through 2 to 4 small
cuts.

## When Youâre in the Hospital

You had surgery to repair or replace one of your heart valves. Your surgery
may have been done through a large incision (cut) in the middle of your chest,
through a smaller cut between 2 of your ribs, or through 2 to 4 small cuts.

Most people spend 3 to 7 days in the hospital. You may have been in the
intensive care unit some of the time, in the hospital, you may have begun
learning exercises to help you recover more quickly.

## What to Expect at Home

It will take 4 to 6 weeks or more to heal completely after surgery. During
this time, it is normal to:

      * Have some pain in your chest around your incision.
      * Have a poor appetite for 2 to 4 weeks.
      * Have mood swings and feel depressed.
      * Feel itchy, numb, or tingly around your incisions. This may last 6 months or more.
      * Be constipated from pain medicines.
      * Have mild trouble with short-term memory or feel confused.
      * Feel tired or have little energy.
      * Have trouble sleeping. You should be sleeping normally within a few months.
      * Have some shortness of breath.
      * Have weakness in your arms for the first month. 

## Activity

The following are general recommendations. You may get specific directions
from your surgical team. Be sure to follow the advice your health care
provider gives you.

Have a person who can help you stay in your home for at least the first 1 to 2
weeks.

Stay active during your recovery. Be sure to start slowly and increase your
activity little by little.

      * DO NOT stand or sit in the same spot for too long. Move around a little bit.
      * Walking is a good exercise for the lungs and heart. Take it slowly at first.
      * Climb stairs carefully because balance may be a problem. Hold onto the railing. Rest part way up the stairs if you need to. Begin with someone walking with you.
      * It is OK to do light household chores, such as setting the table or folding clothes.
      * Stop your activity if you feel short of breath, dizzy, or have any pain in your chest.
      * DO NOT do any activity or exercise that causes pulling or pain across your chest, (such as using a rowing machine, twisting, or lifting weights.) 

DO NOT drive for at least 4 to 6 weeks after your surgery. The twisting
movements needed to turn the steering wheel may pull on your incision.

Expect to take 6 to 8 weeks off work. Ask your provider when you may return to
work.

DO NOT travel for at least 2 to 4 weeks. Ask your provider when you can travel
again.

Return to sexual activity gradually. Talk openly with your partner about it.

      * Most of the time, it is ok to start sexual activity after 4 weeks, or when you can easily climb 2 flights of stairs or walk a half-mile (800 meters).
      * Keep in mind that anxiety, and some medicines, may change sexual response for both men and women.
      * Men should not use medicines for impotence (Viagra, Cialis, or Levitra) until the provider says it is OK. 

## Wound Care

For the first 6 weeks after your surgery, you must be careful how you use your
arms and upper body when you move.

DO NOT:

      * Reach backwards.
      * Let anyone pull on your arms for any reason (such as helping you move around or get out of bed).
      * Lift anything heavier than 5 to 7 pounds (2 to 3 kilograms) for about 3 months.
      * Do other activities that keep your arms above your shoulders. 

Do these things carefully:

      * Brushing your teeth.
      * Getting out of bed or a chair. Keep your arms close to your sides when you use them to do this.
      * Bending forward to tie your shoes. 

Stop any activity if you feel pulling on your incision or breastbone. Stop
right away if you hear or feel any popping, moving, or shifting of your
breastbone and call your surgeonâs office.

Use mild soap and water to clean the area around your incision.

      * Wash your hands with soap and water.
      * Gently rub up and down on the skin with your hands or a very soft cloth.
      * Use a washcloth only when the scabs are gone and the skin has healed. 

You may take showers, but only for 10 minutes at a time. Make sure the water
is lukewarm. DO NOT use any creams, oils, or perfumed body washes. Apply
dressings (bandages) the way your provider showed you.

DO NOT swim, soak in a hot tub, or take baths until your incision is
completely healed. Keep the incision dry.

## Other Self-care

Learn how to check your pulse, and check it every day. Do the breathing
exercises you learned in the hospital for 4 to 6 weeks.

Follow a heart-healthy diet.

If you feel depressed, talk with your family and friends. Ask your provider
about getting help from a counselor.

Continue to take all your medicines for your heart, diabetes, high blood
pressure, or any other conditions you have. DO NOT stop taking any medicine
without talking with your provider first.

You may need to take an antibiotic before any medical procedure or when you go
to the dentist. Tell all of your providers (dentist, doctors, nurses,
physician assistants, or nurse practitioners) about your heart problem. You
may want to wear a medical alert bracelet or necklace.

You may need to take blood-thinning medicines to help keep your blood from
forming clots. Your provider might recommend one of these medicines:

      * Aspirin or clopidogrel (Plavix) or another blood thinner, such as ticagrelor (Brilinta), prasugrel (Effient), apixaban (Eliquis), dabigatran (Xeralto), and rivaroxaban (Pradaxa), edoxaban (Savaysa).
      * Warfarin (Coumadin). If you are taking warfarin, you will need to have regular blood tests. You may be able to use a device to check your blood at home. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

      * You have chest pain or shortness of breath that does not go away when you rest.
      * You have pain in and around your incision that does not continue to get better at home.
      * Your pulse feels irregular, very slow (fewer than 60 beats a minute) or very fast (over 100 to 120 beats a minute).
      * You have dizziness or fainting, or you are very tired.
      * You have a very bad headache that does not go away.
      * You have a cough that does not go away.
      * You have redness, swelling, or pain in your calf.
      * You are coughing up blood or yellow or green mucus.
      * You have problems taking any of your heart medicines.
      * Your weight goes up by more than 2 pounds (1 kilogram) in a day for 2 days in a row.
      * Your wound changes. It is red or swollen, it has opened, or it has drainage coming from it.
      * You have chills or a fever over 101Â°F (38.3Â°C). 

If you are taking blood thinners, call your provider if you have:

      * A serious fall, or you hit your head
      * Pain, discomfort, or swelling at an injection or injury site
      * A lot of bruising on your skin
      * A lot of bleeding, such as nosebleeds or bleeding gums
      * Bloody or dark brown urine or stool
      * Headache, dizziness, or weakness
      * An infection or fever, or an illness that is causing vomiting or diarrhea
      * You become pregnant or are planning to become pregnant 

## Alternative Names

Aortic valve replacement - discharge; Aortic valvuloplasty - discharge; Aortic
valve repair - discharge; Replacement - aortic valve - discharge; Repair -
aortic valve - discharge; Ring annuloplasty - discharge; Percutaneous aortic
valve replacement or repair - discharge; Balloon valvuloplasty - discharge;
Mini-thoracotomy aortic valve - discharge; Mini-aortic replacement or repair -
discharge; Cardiac valvular surgery - discharge; Mini-sternotomy - discharge;
Robotically-assisted endoscopic aortic valve repair - discharge; Mitral valve
replacement - open - discharge; Mitral valve repair - open - discharge; Mitral
valve repair - right mini-thoracotomy - discharge; Mitral valve repair -
partial upper sternotomy - discharge; Robotically-assisted endoscopic mitral
valve repair - discharge; Percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty - discharge

## References

Carabello BA. Valvular heart disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 75.

Nishimura RA, Otto CM, Bonow RO, et al. 2014 AHA/ACC guideline for the
management of patients with valvular heart disease: executive summary: a
report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task
Force on Practice Guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2014;63(22):2438-2488.
PMID: 24603192 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24603192.

Rosengart TK, Anand J. Acquired heart disease: valvular. In: Townsend CM JR,
Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 60.

## Read More

      * Aortic valve surgery - minimally invasive
      * Aortic valve surgery - open
      * Bicuspid aortic valve 
      * Endocarditis
      * Heart valve surgery
      * Mitral valve prolapse
      * Mitral valve surgery - minimally invasive
      * Mitral valve surgery - open
      * Pulmonary valve stenosis
      * Tips on how to quit smoking

## Patient Instructions

      * Antiplatelet drugs - P2Y12 inhibitors
      * Aspirin and heart disease
      * Taking warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven) - what to ask your doctor
      * Taking warfarin (Coumadin)

## Review Date 1/28/2019

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Heart Surgery
      * Heart Valve Diseases

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

