Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000120.htm    
                                Description: Alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT) deficiency is a condition in which the body does not make enough of AAT, a protein that protects the lungs and liver from damage. The condition can lead to COPD and liver disease    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000120.htm

# Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT) deficiency is a condition in which the body does not
make enough of AAT, a protein that protects the lungs and liver from damage.
The condition can lead to COPD and liver disease (cirrhosis).

## Causes

AAT is a type of protein called a protease inhibitor. AAT is made in the liver
and it works to protect the lungs and liver.

AAT deficiency means there is not enough of this protein in the body. It is
caused by a genetic defect. The condition is most common among Europeans and
North Americans of European descent.

Adults with severe AAT deficiency will develop emphysema, often before 40
years of age. Smoking can increase the risk of emphysema.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

      * Shortness of breath with and without exertion, and other symptoms of COPD
      * Symptoms of liver failure
      * Loss of weight without trying
      * Wheezing

## Exams and Tests

A physical examination may reveal a barrel-shaped chest, wheezing, or
decreased breath sounds. The following tests may also help with diagnosis:

      * AAT blood test
      * Arterial blood gases
      * Chest x-ray
      * CT scan of the chest
      * Genetic testing
      * Lung function test

Your health care provider may suspect you of having this condition if you
develop:

      * COPD before age 45
      * COPD but you have never smoked or been exposed to toxins
      * COPD and you have a family history of the condition
      * Cirrhosis and no other cause can be found
      * Cirrhosis and you have a family history of liver disease 

## Treatment

Treatment for AAT deficiency involves replacing the missing AAT protein. The
protein is given through a vein each week or every 4 weeks. This is only
slightly effective at preventing more lung damage in people without end-stage
disease. This procedure is called augmentation therapy.

If you smoke, you need to quit.

Other treatments are also used for COPD and cirrhosis.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Some people with this deficiency will not develop liver or lung disease.

COPD and cirrhosis can be life threatening.

## Possible Complications

Complications of AAT deficiency include:

      * Bronchiectasis (damage of the large airways)
      * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
      * Liver failure or cancer 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of AAT deficiency.

## Alternative Names

AAT deficiency; Alpha-1 protease deficiency; COPD - alpha-1 antitrypsin
deficiency; Cirrhosis - alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency

## Images

      * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs
      * ![Liver anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8848t.jpg)Liver anatomy

## References

Han MK, Lazarus SC. COPD: clinical diagnosis and management. In: Broaddus VC,
Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 44.

Hatipoglu U, Stoller JK. a1-antitrypsin deficiency. _Clin Chest Med_.
2016;37(3):487-504. PMID: 27514595 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27514595.

Winnie GB, Boas SR. a1-antitrypsin deficiency and emphysema. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 393.

## Review Date 7/28/2018

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Alpha-1 Antitrypsin
Deficiency](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Alpha-1AntitrypsinDeficiency_thumb.jpg)Alpha-1
Antitrypsin Deficiency _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

