Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000602.htm    
                                Description: A chronic illness is a long-term health condition that may not have a cure. Examples of chronic illnesses are:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Living with a chronic illness - reaching out to others

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000602.htm

# Living with a chronic illness - reaching out to others

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A chronic illness is a long-term health condition that may not have a cure.
Examples of chronic illnesses are:

      * Alzheimer disease and dementia
      * Arthritis
      * Asthma
      * Cancer
      * COPD
      * Crohn disease
      * Cystic fibrosis
      * Diabetes
      * Epilepsy
      * Heart disease
      * HIV/AIDS
      * Mood disorders (bipolar, cyclothymic, and depression)
      * Multiple sclerosis
      * Parkinson disease

Living with chronic illness can make you feel very alone. Learn about staying
connected with people to help you cope with your illness.

## Talk With People who Have the Same Illness

Sharing with and learning from people who have the same feelings as you can
help you cope with your own illness.

      * Find a support group in your area for people who have the same chronic illness as you. Many organizations and hospitals run support groups. Ask your health care provider how to find one. For example, if you have heart disease, the American Heart Association may offer or know of a support group in your area.
      * Find an online group. There are online blogs and discussion groups about many topics, and you may find support this way. 

## Tell Others About Your Chronic Illness

You may find it hard to tell others that you have a chronic illness. You may
worry that they will not want to know about it or that they will judge you.
You may feel embarrassed about your illness. These are normal feelings.
Thinking about telling people can be harder than actually telling them.

People will react in different ways. They may be:

      * Surprised.
      * Nervous. Some people might not know what to say, or they might worry they will say the wrong thing. Let them know that there is no right way to react and no perfect thing to say.
      * Helpful. They know someone else with the same illness so they are familiar with what is going on with you.

You may look and feel fine most of the time. But at some point, you may feel
ill or have less energy. You may not be able to work as hard, or you may need
to take breaks for self-care. When this happens, you want people to know about
your illness so they understand what is going on.

Tell people about your illness to keep you safe. If you have a medical
emergency, you want people to step in and help. For example:

      * If you have epilepsy, your coworkers should know what to do if you have a seizure.
      * If you have diabetes, they should know what the symptoms of low blood sugar are and what to do.

## Let People Help you

There may be people in your life who want to help you take care of yourself.
Let your loved ones and friends know how they can help you. Sometimes all you
need is someone to talk to.

You may not always want people's help. You might not want their advice. Tell
them as much as you feel comfortable. Ask them to respect your privacy if you
don't want to talk about it.

If you attend a support group, you may want to take family members, friends or
others along. This can help them learn more about your illness and how to
support you.

If you are involved in an online discussion group, you might want to show
family or friends some of the postings to help them learn more.

If you live alone and do not know where to find support:

      * Ask your provider for ideas about where you can find support.
      * See if there is an agency where you can volunteer. Many health agencies rely on volunteers. For example, if you have cancer, you may be able to volunteer at the American Cancer Society.
      * Find out if there are talks or classes about your illness in your area. Some hospitals and clinics may offer these. This can be a good way to meet others with the same illness.

## Get Help With Your Daily Tasks

You may need help with your self-care tasks, getting to appointments,
shopping, or household chores. Keep a list of people who you can ask for help.
Learn to be comfortable accepting help when it is offered. Many people are
happy to help and are glad to be asked.

If you do not know someone who can help you, ask your provider or social
worker about different services that may be available in your area. You may be
able to get meals delivered to your home, help from a home health aide, or
other services.

## References

Ahmed SM, Hershberger PJ, Lemkau JP. Psychosocial influences on health. In:
Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 3.

American Psychological Association website. Coping with a diagnosis of chronic
illness. www.apa.org/helpcenter/chronic-illness.aspx. Updated August 2013.
Accessed September 17, 2018.

Nicholson NR. Social isolation. In: Larsen PD, ed. _Lubkin's Chronic Illness:
Impact and Intervention_. 9th ed. Burlington, MA: Jones and Bartlett Learning;
2016:chap 6.

Wagner EH. Comprehensive chronic disease management. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 13.

## Review Date 8/4/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Coping with Chronic Illness

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

