Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000601.htm    
                                Description: Learning that you have a long-term (chronic) illness can bring up many different feelings.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Living with a chronic illness - dealing with feelings

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000601.htm

# Living with a chronic illness - dealing with feelings

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Learning that you have a long-term (chronic) illness can bring up many
different feelings.

Learn about common emotions you might have when you are diagnosed and live
with a chronic illness. Learn how to support yourself and where to go for more
support.

## Getting Used to Chronic Illness

Examples of chronic illnesses are:

      * Alzheimer disease and dementia
      * Arthritis
      * Asthma
      * Cancer
      * COPD
      * Crohn disease
      * Cystic fibrosis
      * Diabetes
      * Epilepsy
      * Heart Disease
      * HIV/AIDS
      * Mood disorders (bipolar, cyclothymic, and depression)
      * Multiple sclerosis
      * Parkinson disease

It can be a shock to learn you have a chronic illness. You may ask "why me?"
or "where did it come from?"

      * Sometimes nothing can explain why you got the illness.
      * The illness may run in your family.
      * You may have been exposed to something that caused the illness. 

As you learn more about your illness and how to take care of yourself, your
feelings may change. Fear or shock may give way to:

      * Anger because you have the illness
      * Sadness or depression because you may not be able to live the way you used to
      * Confusion or stress about how to take care of yourself 

## Your Image of Yourself may Change

You may feel like you are not a whole person anymore. You might be embarrassed
or ashamed that you have an illness. Know that, with time, your illness will
become part of you and you will have a new normal.

You will learn to live with your illness. You will get used to your new
normal. For example:

      * A person with diabetes may need to learn to test their blood sugar and give insulin several times a day. This becomes their new normal.
      * A person with asthma may need to carry an inhaler and avoid things that may cause an asthma attack. This is their new normal. 

## Expect to Feel Overwhelmed

You may be overwhelmed by:

      * How much there is to learn.
      * What lifestyle changes you need to make. For example, you may be trying to change your diet, quit smoking, and exercise. 

## Be Gentle With Yourself

Over time, you'll adapt to living with your illness.

      * Know that you will adapt over time. You will feel like yourself again as you learn how to fit your illness into your life.
      * Know that what may be confusing at first starts to make sense. Give yourself time to learn how to take care of your illness.

## Feelings and Emotions Over Time

It takes a lot of energy to manage your chronic illness every day. Sometimes,
this can affect your outlook and mood. Sometimes you may feel very alone. This
is particularly true during times when your illness is harder to manage.

You may sometimes have the feelings you had when you first got the illness:

      * Depressed that you have the illness. It feels like life will never be OK again.
      * Angry. It still seems unfair that you have the illness.
      * Afraid that you will become very ill over time.

These kinds of feelings are normal.

Stress can make it harder for you to take care of your chronic illness. You
can learn to cope with stress to help you manage day to day.

Find ways to decrease stress that work for you. Here are some ideas:

      * Go for a walk.
      * Read a book or watch a movie.
      * Try yoga, tai chi, or meditation.
      * Take an art class, play an instrument, or listen to music.
      * Call or spend time with a friend.

Finding healthy, fun ways to cope with stress helps many people. If your
stress lasts, talking with a therapist might help you deal with the many
feelings that come up. Ask your health care provider for help finding a
therapist.

## Learn More About Your Illness

Know more about your illness so you can manage it and feel better about it.

      * Learn how to live with your chronic illness. At first it might seem like it is controlling you, but the more you learn and can do for yourself, the more normal and in control you will feel.
      * Find information on the Internet, at a library, and from social networks, support groups, national organizations, and local hospitals.
      * Ask your provider for websites you can trust. Not all the information you find online is from reliable sources.

## References

American Psychological Association website. Coping with a diagnosis of chronic
illness. www.apa.org/helpcenter/chronic-illness.aspx. Updated August 2013.
Accessed August 17, 2018.

Larsen PD. Psychosocial adjustment. In: Larsen PD, ed. _Lubkin's Chronic
Illness: Impact and Intervention_. 9th ed. Burlington, MA: Jones and Bartlett
Learning; 2016:chap 3.

Wagner EH. Comprehensive chronic disease management. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 13.

## Review Date 8/4/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Coping with Chronic Illness

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

