Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000292.htm    
                                Description: Hemorrhoids are swollen veins in the anus or lower part of the rectum.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hemorrhoids

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000292.htm

# Hemorrhoids

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hemorrhoids are swollen veins in the anus or lower part of the rectum.

## Causes

Hemorrhoids are very common. They result from increased pressure on the anus.
This can occur during pregnancy or childbirth, and due to constipation. The
pressure causes the normal anal veins and tissue to swell. This tissue can
bleed, often during bowel movements.

Hemorrhoids may be caused by:

      * Straining during bowel movements
      * Constipation
      * Sitting for long periods of time, especially on the toilet
      * Certain diseases, such as cirrhosis

Hemorrhoids may be inside or outside the body.

      * Internal hemorrhoids occur just inside the anus, at the beginning of the rectum. When they are large, they may fall outside (prolapse). The most common problem with internal hemorrhoids is bleeding during bowel movements.
      * External hemorrhoids occur outside the anus. They can result in difficulty cleaning the area after a bowel movement. If a blood clot forms in an external hemorrhoid, it can be very painful (thrombosed external hemorrhoid).

## Symptoms

Hemorrhoids are most often not painful, but if a blood clot forms, they can be
very painful.

Common symptoms include:

      * Painless bright red blood from the rectum
      * Anal itching
      * Anal ache or pain, especially while sitting
      * Pain during bowel movements
      * One or more hard tender lumps near the anus 

## Exams and Tests

Most of the time, a health care provider can diagnose hemorrhoids by simply
looking at the rectal area. External hemorrhoids can often be detected this
way.

Tests that may help diagnose the problem include:

      * Rectal exam
      * Sigmoidoscopy
      * Anoscopy

## Treatment

Treatments for hemorrhoids include:

      * Over-the-counter corticosteroid (for example, cortisone) creams to help reduce pain and swelling
      * Hemorrhoid creams with lidocaine to help reduce pain
      * Stool softeners to help reduce straining and constipation 

Things you can do to reduce itching include:

      * Apply witch hazel to the area with a cotton swab.
      * Wear cotton underwear.
      * Avoid toilet tissue with perfumes or colors. Use baby wipes instead.
      * Try not to scratch the area. 

Sitz baths can help you to feel better. Sit in warm water for 10 to 15
minutes.

If your hemorrhoids do not get better with home treatments, you may need some
type of office treatment to shrink the hemorrhoids.

If office treatment is not enough, some type of surgery may be necessary, such
as removal of the hemorrhoids (hemorrhoidectomy). These procedures are
generally used for people with severe bleeding or prolapse who have not
responded to other therapy.

## Possible Complications

The blood in the hemorrhoid may form clots. This can cause tissue around it to
die. Surgery is sometimes needed to remove hemorrhoids with clots.

Rarely, severe bleeding may also occur. Iron deficiency anemia can result from
long-term blood loss.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for your provider if:

      * Hemorrhoid symptoms do not improve with home treatment.
      * You have rectal bleeding. Your provider may want to check for other, more serious causes of the bleeding.

Get medical help right away if:

      * You lose a lot of blood
      * You are bleeding and feel dizzy, lightheaded, or faint

## Prevention

Constipation, straining during bowel movements, and sitting on the toilet too
long raise your risk for hemorrhoids. To prevent constipation and hemorrhoids,
you should:

      * Drink plenty of fluids.
      * Eat a high-fiber diet of fruits, vegetables, and whole grains.
      * Consider using fiber supplements.
      * Use stool softeners to prevent straining. 

## Alternative Names

Rectal lump; Piles; Lump in the rectum; Rectal bleeding - hemorrhoids; Blood
in the stool - hemorrhoidsÂ

## Images

      * ![Hemorrhoids](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17069t.jpg)Hemorrhoids
      * ![Hemorrhoid surgery - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7117t.jpg)Hemorrhoid surgery - series

## References

Abdelnaby A, Downs JM. Diseases of the anorectum. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 129.

Blumetti J, Cintron JR. The management of hemorrhoids. In: Cameron JL, Cameron
AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:271-277.

Zainea GG, Pfenninger JL. Office treatment of hemorrhoids. In: Fowler GC, ed.
_Pfenninger and Fowler's Procedures for Primary Care_. 4th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 87.

## Review Date 5/27/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hemorrhoids](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hemorrhoids2_thumb.jpg)Hemorrhoids
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

