Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000674.htm    
                                Description: You had a procedure to remove your hemorrhoid. Hemorrhoids are swollen veins in the anus or lower part of the rectum.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hemorrhoid removal - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000674.htm

# Hemorrhoid removal - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had a procedure to remove your hemorrhoid. Hemorrhoids are swollen veins
in the anus or lower part of the rectum.

Now that you're going home, follow your health care provider's instructions
for self-care.

## During Your Procedure

Depending on your symptoms, you may have had one of these types of procedures:

      * Placing a small rubber band around the hemorrhoids to shrink them by blocking blood flow
      * Stapling the hemorrhoids to block blood flow
      * Surgically removing the hemorrhoids
      * Laser or chemical removal of the hemorrhoids 

After your recovery from the anesthesia, you will return home the same day.

## What to Expect at Home

Recovery time depends on the type of procedure you had. In general:

      * You may have a lot of pain after surgery as the area tightens and relaxes. Take the pain medicines on time as instructed. DO NOT wait until the pain gets bad to take them.
      * You may notice some bleeding, especially after your first bowel movement. This is to be expected.
      * Your doctor may recommend eating a softer diet than usual for the first few days. Ask your doctor about what you should eat.
      * Be sure to drink plenty of fluids, such as broth, juice, and water.
      * Your doctor may suggest using a stool softener so that it is easier to have bowel movements. 

## Wound Care

Follow instructions on how to care for your wound.

      * You may want to use a gauze pad or sanitary pad to absorb any drainage from the wound. Be sure to change it often.
      * Ask your doctor when you can start taking a shower. Usually, you can do so the day after surgery.

## Activity

Gradually return to your normal activities.

      * Avoid lifting, pulling, or strenuous activity until your bottom has healed. This includes straining during bowel movements or urination.
      * Depending on how you feel and the type of work you do, you may need to take time off work.
      * As you start feeling better, increase your physical activity. For example, do more walking.
      * You should have a complete recovery in a few weeks.

## Pain Management

Your doctor will give you a prescription for pain medicines. Get it filled
right away so you have it available when you go home. Remember to take your
pain medicine before your pain gets severe.

      * You may apply an ice pack to your bottom to help reduce swelling and pain. Wrap the ice pack in a clean towel before applying it. This prevents cold injury to your skin. Do not use the ice pack for more than 15 minutes at a time.
      * Your doctor may recommend that you do a sitz bath. Soaking in a warm bath can also help relieve pain. Sit in 3 to 4 inches (7.5 to 10 centimeters) of warm water a few times a day.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your doctor if:

      * You have a lot of pain or swelling
      * You bleed a lot from your rectum
      * You have a fever
      * You cannot pass urine several hours after the surgery
      * The incision is red and hot to the touch 

## Alternative Names

Hemorrhoidectomy - discharge; Hemorrhoid - discharge

## References

Blumetti J, Cintron JR. The management of hemorrhoids. In: Cameron JL, Cameron
AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:271-277.

Merchea A, Larson DW. Anus. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox
KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis of Modern
Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 52.

## Review Date 5/27/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Hemorrhoids

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

