Link: https://medlineplus.gov/animaldiseasesandyourhealth.html    
                                Description: You may know that some animal diseases can have an effect on humans. Find out more about animal diseases and your health.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Animal Diseases and Your Health

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/animaldiseasesandyourhealth.html

#  Animal Diseases and Your Health

Also called: Zoonoses

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Women

## Summary

Animal diseases that people can catch are called zoonoses. Many diseases
affecting humans can be traced to animals or animal products. You can get a
disease directly from an animal, or indirectly, through the environment.

Farm animals can carry diseases. If you touch them or things they have
touched, like fencing or buckets, wash your hands thoroughly. Adults should
make sure children who visit farms or petting zoos wash up as well.

Though they may be cute and cuddly, wild animals may carry germs, viruses, and
parasites. Deer and deer mice carry ticks that cause Lyme disease. Some wild
animals may carry rabies. Enjoy wildlife from a distance.

Pets can also make you sick. Reptiles pose a particular risk. Turtles, snakes
and iguanas can transmit Salmonella bacteria to their owners. You can get
rabies from an infected dog or toxoplasmosis from handling kitty litter of an
infected cat. The chance that your dog or cat will make you sick is small. You
can reduce the risk by practicing good hygiene, keeping pet areas clean and
keeping your pets' shots up-to-date.

## Start Here

    * About Pets and People (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Animals: Disease Risks for People (American Veterinary Medical Association)
    * How to Stay Healthy around Pets (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Infections That Pets Carry (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Zoonotic Diseases (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Related Issues

    * Spring and Baby Poultry are Here! (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Specifics

    * Bat Influenza (Flu) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Birds Kept as Pets (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Cats (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Coming in Contact with Bats (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Dogs (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Farm Animals (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Horses (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Key Facts about Tularemia (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Lymphocytic Choriomeningitis Virus from Pet Rodents (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Mycobacterium bovis (Bovine Tuberculosis) in Humans (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF
    * Pets and Parasites (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Pets and Pasteurella Infections (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish
    * Rat Bite Fever (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish
    * Ringworm (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Rodent Control: Seal Up! Trap Up! Clean Up! (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Toxocariasis (also known as Roundworm Infection) FAQs (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Zoonotic Hookworm FAQs (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Zoonotic origins of human coronaviruses.
    * Article: SARS-CoV-2: an Emerging Coronavirus that Causes a Global Threat.
    * Article: Potential global pandemics: the role of the WHO and other public...
    * Animal Diseases and Your Health -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
    * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Women

    * Caring for Pets When You're Pregnant (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation)
    * Toxoplasmosis and Pregnant Women (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Topic Image

![Animal Diseases and Your
Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnimalDiseasesandYourHealth.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Brucellosis
    * Creeping eruption
    * Pets and the immunocompromised person
    * Psittacosis
    * Rat-bite fever
    * Tularemia
    * Visceral larva migrans

## Related Health Topics

    * Bird Flu
    * Cat Scratch Disease
    * Coronavirus Infections
    * Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease
    * H1N1 Flu (Swine Flu)
    * Lyme Disease
    * Monkeypox Virus Infections
    * Pet Health
    * Rabies
    * Toxoplasmosis
    * West Nile Virus

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 19 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 18 August 2014

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

