Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002939.htm    
                                Description: Hemorrhoids are swollen veins around the anus. They may be inside the anus (internal hemorrhoids) or outside the anus (external hemorrhoids).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hemorrhoid surgery

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002939.htm

# Hemorrhoid surgery

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hemorrhoids are swollen veins around the anus. They may be inside the anus
(internal hemorrhoids) or outside the anus (external hemorrhoids).

Often hemorrhoids do not cause problems. But if hemorrhoids bleed a lot, cause
pain, or become swollen, hard, and painful, surgery can remove them.

## Description

Hemorrhoid surgery can be done in your health care provider's office or in the
hospital operating room. In most cases, you can go home the same day. The type
of surgery you have depends on your symptoms and the location and size of the
hemorrhoid.

Before the surgery, your doctor will numb the area so you can stay awake, but
not feel anything. For some types of surgery, you may be given general
anesthesia. This means you will be given medicine in your vein that puts you
to sleep and keeps you pain-free during surgery.

Hemorrhoid surgery may involve:

      * Putting a small rubber band around a hemorrhoid to shrink it by blocking blood flow.
      * Stapling a hemorrhoid to block blood flow, causing it to shrink.
      * Using a knife (scalpel) to remove hemorrhoids. You may or may not have stitches.
      * Injecting a chemical into the blood vessel of the hemorrhoid to shrink it.
      * Using a laser to burn the hemorrhoid. 

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Often you can manage small hemorrhoids by:

      * Eating a high fiber diet
      * Drinking more water
      * Avoiding constipation (taking a fiber supplement if needed)
      * Not straining when you have a bowel movement 

When these measures do not work and you are having bleeding and pain, your
doctor may recommend hemorrhoid surgery.

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general are:

      * Reactions to medicines, breathing problems
      * Bleeding, blood clots, infection

Risks for this type of surgery include:

      * Leaking a small amount of stool (long-term problems are rare)
      * Problems passing urine because of the pain

## Before the Procedure

Be sure to tell your provider:

      * If you are or could be pregnant
      * What medicines you are taking, including drugs, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription
      * If you have been drinking a lot of alcohol, more than 1 or 2 drinks a day 

During the days before the surgery:

      * You may be asked to temporarily stop taking blood thinners such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), clopidogrel (Plavix), warfarin (Coumadin).
      * Ask your doctor which drugs you should still take on the day of your surgery.
      * If you smoke, try to stop. Smoking can slow healing. Ask your provider for help quitting.
      * Let your provider know about any cold, flu, fever, herpes breakout, or other illness you may have before your surgery. If you do get sick, your surgery may need to be postponed. 

On the day of your surgery:

      * Follow your provider's instructions about when to stop eating and drinking.
      * Take any medicines you are asked to take with a small sip of water.
      * Follow instructions on when to arrive at your provider's office or at the hospital. Be sure to arrive on time. 

## After the Procedure

You will usually go home the same day after your surgery. Be sure you arrange
to have someone drive you home. You may have a lot of pain after surgery as
the area tightens and relaxes. You may be given medicines to relieve pain.

Follow instructions on how to care for yourself at home.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people do very well after hemorrhoid surgery. You should recover fully in
a few weeks, depending on how involved the surgery was.

You will need to continue with diet and lifestyle changes to help prevent the
hemorrhoids from coming back.

## Alternative Names

Hemorrhoidectomy

## Images

      * ![Hemorrhoid surgery - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7117t.jpg)Hemorrhoid surgery - series

## References

Blumetti J, Cintron JR. The management of hemorrhoids. In: Cameron JL, Cameron
AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:271-277.

Merchea A, Larson DW. Anus. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox
KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis of Modern
Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 52.

## Review Date 5/27/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hemorrhoids](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hemorrhoids2_thumb.jpg)Hemorrhoids
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

