Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000736.htm    
                                Description: Parinaud oculoglandular syndrome is an eye problem that is similar to conjunctivitis (&quot;pink eye&quot;). It most often affects only one eye. It occurs with swollen lymph nodes and an illness with a fever.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Parinaud oculoglandular syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000736.htm

# Parinaud oculoglandular syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Parinaud oculoglandular syndrome is an eye problem that is similar to
conjunctivitis ("pink eye"). It most often affects only one eye. It occurs
with swollen lymph nodes and an illness with a fever.

Note: Parinaud syndrome (also called upgaze paresis) is a different disorder
in which you have trouble looking upward. This can be caused by a brain tumor,
and requires an immediate evaluation by your health care provider.

## Causes

Parinaud oculoglandular syndrome (POS) is caused by an infection with
bacteria, a virus, fungus, or parasite.

The most common causes are cat scratch disease and tularemia (rabbit fever).
The bacteria that cause either condition can infect the eye. The bacteria can
directly enter the eye (on a finger or other object), or air droplets that
carry the bacteria can land on the eye.

Other infectious diseases may spread the same way, or through the bloodstream
to the eye.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Red, irritated, and painful eye (looks like "pink eye")
      * Fever
      * General ill feeling
      * Increased tearing (possible)
      * Swelling of nearby lymph glands (often in front of the ear) 

## Exams and Tests

An exam shows:

      * Fever and other signs of illness
      * Red, tender, inflamed eye
      * Tender lymph nodes may be present in front of the ear
      * There may be growths (conjunctival nodules) on the inside of the eyelid or the white of the eye 

Blood tests will be done to check for infection.Â The white blood cell count
may be high or low, depending on the cause of the infection.

A blood test to check antibody levels is the main method used to diagnose many
of the infections that cause POS. Other tests may include:

      * Biopsy of the lymph node
      * Laboratory culture of eye fluids, lymph node tissue, or blood 

## Treatment

Depending on the cause of the infection, antibiotics may be helpful. Surgery
may be needed in rare cases to clean away the infected tissues.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook depends on the cause of the infection. In general, if the
diagnosis is made early and treatment starts right away, the outcome of POS
can be very good.

## Possible Complications

Serious complications are rare.

The conjunctival nodules can sometimes form sores (ulcers) during the healing
process. The infection can spread to nearby tissues or into the bloodstream.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

You should call your provider if you develop a red, irritated, painful eye.

## Prevention

Frequent hand washing can reduce the likelihood of getting POS. Avoid being
scratched by a cat, even a healthy cat. You can avoid tularemia by not having
contact with wild rabbits, squirrels, or ticks.

## Alternative Names

Cat scratch disease; Oculoglandular syndrome

## Images

      * ![Swollen lymph node](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9833t.jpg)Swollen lymph node

## References

Bowling B, Conjunctiva. In: Bowling B, ed. _Kanski's Clinical Ophthalmology_.
8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 5.

Gruzensky WD. Parinaud oculoglandular syndrome. In: Mannis MJ, Holland EJ,
eds. _Cornea._ 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 45.

Rolain J-M, Raoult D. _Bartonella_ infections. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 315.

Rubenstein JB, Spektor T. Conjunctivitis: infectious and noninfectious. In:
Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 4.6.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eye
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeInfectionsNew_thumb.jpg)Eye
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

