Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001625.htm    
                                Description: Dacryoadenitis is inflammation of the tear-producing gland (lacrimal gland).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dacryoadenitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001625.htm

# Dacryoadenitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Dacryoadenitis is inflammation of the tear-producing gland (lacrimal gland).

## Causes

Acute dacryoadenitis is most commonly due to viral or bacterial infection.
Common causes include mumps, Epstein-Barr virus, staphylococcus, and
gonococcus.

Chronic dacryoadenitis is most often due to noninfectious inflammatory
disorders. Examples include sarcoidosis, thyroid eye disease, and orbital
pseudotumor.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Swelling of the outer portion of the upper lid, with possible redness and tenderness 
      * Pain in the area of swelling 
      * Excess tearing or discharge 
      * Swelling of lymph nodes in front of the ear

## Exams and Tests

Dacryoadenitis can be diagnosed by an exam of the eyes and lids. Special
tests, such as a CT scan may be needed to look for the cause. Sometimes a
biopsy will be needed toÂ make sure that a tumor of the lacrimal gland is not
present.

## Treatment

If the cause of dacryoadenitis is a viral condition such as mumps, rest and
warm compresses may be enough. In other cases, the treatment depends on the
disease that caused the condition.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people will fully recover from dacryoadenitis. For more serious causes,
such as sarcoidosis, the outlook depends on the disease that caused this
condition.

## Possible Complications

Swelling may be severe enough to put pressure on the eye and distort vision.
Some people who wereÂ first thought to have dacryoadenitis may turn out to
have cancer of the lacrimal gland.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if swelling or pain increase despite treatment.

## Prevention

Mumps can be prevented by getting vaccinated. You can avoid getting infected
with gonococcus, the bacteria that cause gonorrhea,Â by usingÂ safe sex
practices. Most other causes cannot be prevented.

## References

Durand ML. Periocular infections. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 118.

McNab AA. Orbital infection and inflammation. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds.
_Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 12.14.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eye
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeInfectionsNew_thumb.jpg)Eye
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

