Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003031.htm    
                                Description: Eye redness is most often due to swollen or dilated blood vessels. This makes the surface of the eye look red or bloodshot.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Eye redness

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003031.htm

# Eye redness

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Eye redness is most often due to swollen or dilated blood vessels. This makes
the surface of the eye look red or bloodshot.

![Bloodshot eyes](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/8624.jpg)

## Considerations

There are many causes of a red eye or eyes. Some are medical emergencies.
Others are a cause for concern, but not an emergency. Many are nothing to
worry about.

Eye redness is often less of a concern than eye pain or vision problems.

## Causes

Bloodshot eyes appear red because the vessels at the surface of the white
portion of the eye (sclera) become swollen. Vessels may swell due to:

      * Eye dryness
      * Too much sun exposure
      * Dust or other particles in the eye
      * Allergies
      * Infection
      * Injury 

Eye infections or inflammation can cause redness as well as possible itching,
discharge, pain, or vision problems. These may be due to:

      * Blepharitis: Swelling along the edge of the eyelid.
      * Conjunctivitis: Swelling or infection of the clear tissue that lines the eyelids and covers the surface of the eye (the conjunctiva). This is often referred to as "pink eye."
      * Corneal ulcers: Sores on the cornea most often caused by a serious bacterial or viral infection.
      * Uveitis: Inflammation of the uvea, which includes the iris, ciliary body, and choroid. The cause is most often not known. It may be related to an autoimmune disorder, infection, or exposure to toxins. The type of uveitis that causes the worst red eye is called iritis, in which only the iris is inflamed. 

Other potential causes of eye redness include:

      * Colds or allergies.
      * Acute glaucoma: A sudden increase in eye pressure that is extremely painful and causes serious visual problems. This is a medical emergency. The more common form of glaucoma is long-term (chronic) and gradual.
      * Corneal scratches: Injuries caused by sand, dust, or overuse of contact lenses. 

Sometimes, a bright red spot, called a subconjunctival hemorrhage, will appear
on the white of the eye. This often happens after straining or coughing, which
causes a broken blood vessel on the surface of the eye. Most often, there is
no pain and your vision is normal. It is almost never a serious problem.
Because the blood leaks into the conjunctiva, which is clear, you cannot wipe
or rinse the blood away. Like a bruise, the red spot will go away within a
week or two.

## Home Care

Try to rest your eyes if redness is due to fatigue or eye strain. No other
treatment is needed.

If you have eye pain or a vision problem, call your eye doctor right away.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the hospital or call your local emergency number (such as 911) if:

      * Your eye is red after a penetrating injury.
      * You have a headache with blurred vision or confusion.
      * You are seeing halos around lights.
      * You have nausea and vomiting.

Call your health care provider if:

      * Your eyes are red longer than 1 to 2 days.
      * You have eye pain or vision changes.
      * You take blood-thinning medicine,Â such asÂ warfarin.
      * You may have an object in your eye.
      * You are very sensitive to light.
      * You have a yellow or greenish discharge from one or both eyes.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a physical exam, including an eye exam, and ask
questions about your medical history. Questions may include:

      * Are both of your eyes affected or just one?
      * What part of the eye is affected?
      * Do you wear contact lenses?
      * Did the redness come on suddenly?
      * Have you ever had eye redness before?
      * Do you have eye pain? Does it get worse with movement of the eyes?
      * Is your vision reduced?
      * Do you have eye discharge, burning, or itching?
      * Do you have other symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, or headache? 

Your provider may need to wash your eyes with a saline solution and remove any
foreign bodies in the eyes. You may be given eye drops to use at home.

## Alternative Names

Bloodshot eyes; Red eyes; Scleral injection; Conjunctival injection

## Images

      * ![Bloodshot eyes](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8624t.jpg)Bloodshot eyes

## References

Dupre AA, Wightman JM. Red and painful eye. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 19.

Rubenstein JB, Spektor T. Conjunctivitis: infectious and noninfectious. In:
Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 4.6.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eye Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeDiseases_thumb.jpg)Eye
Diseases _Read more_

![Eye
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeInfectionsNew_thumb.jpg)Eye
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

