Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001621.htm    
                                Description: Meibomianitis is inflammation of the meibomian glands, a group of oil-releasing (sebaceous) glands in the eyelids. These glands have tiny openings to release oils onto the surface of the cornea.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Meibomianitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001621.htm

# Meibomianitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Meibomianitis is inflammation of the meibomian glands, a group of oil-
releasing (sebaceous) glands in the eyelids. These glands have tiny openings
to release oils onto the surface of the cornea.

## Causes

Any condition that increases the oily secretions of the meibomian glands will
allow excess oils toÂ build upÂ on the edges of the eyelids. This allows forÂ
the excess growth of bacteria that are normally present on the skin.

These problems can be caused by allergies,Â hormone changesÂ during
adolescence, or skin conditions such as rosacea and acne.

Meibomianitis is often associated with blepharitis, which can causeÂ a buildup
of aÂ dandruff-like substance at the base of the eyelashes.

In some people with meibomianitis, the glands will be plugged so that there is
less oil being made for the normal tear film. These people often have symptoms
of dry eye.Â

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Swelling and redness of eyelid edges
      * Symptoms of dry eye
      * Slight blurring of vision due to excess oil in tears -- most often cleared by blinking
      * Frequent styes

## Exams and Tests

Meibomianitis can be diagnosed by an eye exam. Special tests are not required.

## Treatment

Standard treatment involves:

      * Carefully cleansing the edges of the lids
      * Applying moist heat to the affected eye 

These treatments will usually reduce symptoms in most cases.

Your health care provider may prescribe an antibiotic ointment to applyÂ to
the lid's edge.

Other treatments may include:

      * Having an eye doctor perform meibomian gland expression to help clear the glands of secretions.
      * Inserting a small tube (cannula) into each gland opening to wash out thickened oil.
      * TakingÂ tetracycline antibiotics for several weeks.
      * Using LipiFlow, a device that automatically warms the eyelid and helps clear the glands.
      * Taking fish oil to improve the flow of oil from the glands.
      * Using a medicine containing hypochlorous acid, this is sprayed onto the eyelids. This may be particularly useful in people who have rosacea.

You may also need treatment for general skin conditions such as acne or
rosacea.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Meibomianitis is not a vision-threatening condition. However, it may be a
long-term (chronic) and recurring cause of eye irritation. Many people find
the treatments frustrating because results are not often immediate. Treatment,
however, will often help reduce symptoms.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if treatment does not lead to improvement or if styes
develop.

## Prevention

Keeping your eyelids cleanÂ and treating associated skin conditions will help
prevent meibomianitis.

## Alternative Names

Meibomian gland dysfunction

## Images

      * ![Eye anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9553t.jpg)Eye anatomy

## References

Kaiser PK, Friedman NJ. Lids, lashes, and lacrimal system. In: Kaiser PK,
Friedman NJ, eds. _The Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary Illustrated Manual
of Ophthalmology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 3.

Valenzuela FA, Perez VL. Mucous membrane pemphigoid. In: Mannis MJ, Holland
EJ, eds. _Cornea_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 49.

Vasaiwala RA, Bouchard CS. Noninfectious keratitis. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS,
eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 4.17.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eye
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeInfectionsNew_thumb.jpg)Eye
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

