Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001486.htm    
                                Description: Trachoma is an infection of the eyeÂ caused by bacteria called chlamydia.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Trachoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001486.htm

# Trachoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Trachoma is an infection of the eyeÂ caused by bacteria called chlamydia.

## Causes

Trachoma is caused by infection with the bacteria _Chlamydia trachomatis_.

The condition occurs around the world. It is most often seen in rural areas of
developing countries. Children are often affected. However, the scarring
caused by the infection may not be noticed until later in life. The condition
is rare in the United States. However, it is more likely to occur in crowded
or unclean living conditions.

Trachoma is spread through direct contact with infected eye, nose, or throat
fluids. It can also be passed by contact with contaminated objects, such as
towels or clothes. Certain flies can also spread the bacteria.

## Symptoms

Symptoms begin 5 to 12 days after being exposed to the bacteria. The condition
begins slowly. It first appears as inflammation of the tissue lining the
eyelids (conjunctivitis, or "pink eye"). Untreated, this may lead to scarring.

Symptoms may include:

      * Cloudy cornea
      * Discharge from the eye
      * Swelling of lymph nodes just in front of the ears
      * Swollen eyelids
      * Turned-in eyelashes 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will do an eye exam to look for scarring on the
inside of the upper eye lid, redness of the white part of the eyes, and new
blood vessel growth into the cornea.

Lab tests are needed to identify the bacteria and make an accurate diagnosis.

## Treatment

Antibiotics can prevent long-term complications if used early in the
infection. In certain cases, eyelid surgery may be needed to prevent long-term
scarring, which can lead to blindness if not corrected.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outcomes are very good if treatment is started early before scarring and
changes to the eyelids develop.

## Possible Complications

If the eyelids become very irritated, the eyelashes may turn in and rub
against the cornea. This can cause corneal ulcers, additional scars, vision
loss, and possibly, blindness.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you or your child recently visited an area where
trachoma is common and you notice symptoms of conjunctivitis.

## Prevention

Spread of the infection can be limited by washing your hands and face often,
keeping clothes clean, and not sharing items such as towels.

## Alternative Names

Granular conjunctivitis; Egyptian ophthalmia; Conjunctivitis - granular;Â
Conjunctivitis - chlamydia

## Images

      * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye

## References

Batteiger BE, Tan M. Chlamydia trachomatis (trachoma, genital infections,
perinatal infections, and lymphogranuloma venereum). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R,
Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 182.

Bhatt A. Ocular infections. In: Cherry J, Harrison GJ, Kaplan SL, Steinbach
WJ, Hotez PJ, eds. _Feigin and Cherry's Textbook of Pediatric Infectious
Diseases_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 61.

Hammerschlag MR. Chlamydia trachomatis. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme
JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 226.

Rubenstein JB, Spektor T. Conjunctivitis: infectious and noninfectious. In:
Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 4.6.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eye
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeInfectionsNew_thumb.jpg)Eye
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

