Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003034.htm    
                                Description: Eye burning with discharge is burning, itching, or drainage from the eye of any substance other than tears.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Eye burning - itching and discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003034.htm

# Eye burning - itching and discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Eye burning with discharge is burning, itching, or drainage from the eye of
any substance other than tears.

## Causes

Causes may include:

      * Allergies, including seasonal allergies or hay fever
      * Infections, bacterial or viral (conjunctivitis or pink eye)
      * Chemical irritants (such as chlorine in a swimming pool or makeup)
      * Dry eyes
      * Irritants in the air (cigarette smoke or smog) 

## Home Care

Apply cool compresses to soothe itching.

Apply warm compress to soften crusts if they have formed. Washing the eyelids
with baby shampoo on a cotton applicator can also help remove crusts.

Using artificial tears 4 to 6 times a day can be helpful for almost all causes
of burning and irritation, especially dry eyes.

If you have allergies, try to avoid the cause (pets, grasses, cosmetics) as
much as possible. Your health care provider may give you antihistamine eye
drops to help with allergies.

Pink eye or viral conjunctivitis causes a red or bloodshot eye and excessive
tearing. It may be highly contagious for the first few days. The infection
will run its course in about 10 days. If you suspect pink eye:

      * Wash your hands often
      * Avoid touching the unaffected eye 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if:

      * The discharge is thick, greenish, or resembles pus. (This may be from bacterial conjunctivitis.)
      * You have excessive eye pain or sensitivity to light.
      * Your vision is decreased.
      * You have increased swelling in the eyelids. 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will get a medical history and will perform a physical exam.

Questions you may be asked include:

      * What does the eye drainage look like?
      * When did the problem start?
      * Is it in one eye or both eyes?
      * Is your vision affected?
      * Are you sensitive to light?
      * Does anyone else at home or work have a similar problem?
      * Do you have any new pets, linens, or carpets, or are you using different laundry soap?
      * Do you also have a head cold or sore throat?
      * What treatments have you tried so far? 

The physical exam may include a check-up of your:

      * Cornea
      * Conjunctiva
      * Eyelids
      * Eye motion
      * Pupils reaction to light
      * Vision 

Depending on the cause of the problem, your provider may recommend treatments
such as:

      * Lubricating eye drops for dry eyes
      * Antihistamine eye drops for allergies
      * Antiviral drops or ointments for certain viral infections such as herpes
      * Antibiotic eye drops for bacterial conjunctivitis 

Follow your provider's instructions exactly. With treatment, you should
gradually improve. You should be back to normal in 1 to 2 weeks unless the
problem is a chronic one like dry eyes.

## Alternative Names

Itching - burning eyes; Burning eyes

## Images

      * ![External and internal eye anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8867t.jpg)External and internal eye anatomy

## References

Bhatt U, Lagnado R, Dua HS. Follicular conjunctivitis. In: Tasman W, Jaeger
EA, eds. _Duane's Ophthalmology_. 2013 ed. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott
Williams & Wilkins; 2013:vol 4;chap 7.

Dupre AA, Wightman JM. Red and painful eye. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 19.

Rubenstein JB, Tannan A. Allergic conjunctivitis. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds.
_Ophthalmology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 4.7.

Rubenstein JB, Tannan A. Conjunctivitis: infectious and noninfectious. In:
Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 4.6.

Snyder RW, Slade DS. Antibiotic therapy for ocular infection. In: Tasman W,
Jaeger EA, eds. _Duane's Ophthalmology_. 2013 ed. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott
Williams & Wilkins; 2013:vol 4;chap 26.

Yanoff M, Cameron JD. Diseases of the visual system. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 423.

## Review Date 12/2/2017

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eye Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeDiseases_thumb.jpg)Eye
Diseases _Read more_

![Eye
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeInfectionsNew_thumb.jpg)Eye
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

