Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000727.htm    
                                Description: Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease is a group of disorders passed down through families that affect the nerves outside the brain and spine. These are called the peripheral nerves.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000727.htm

# Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease is a group of disorders passed down through
families that affect the nerves outside the brain and spine. These are called
the peripheral nerves.

## Causes

Charcot-Marie-Tooth is one of the most common nerve-related disorders passed
down through families (inherited). Changes to at least 40 genes cause
different forms of this disease.

The disease leads to damage or destruction to the covering (myelin sheath)
around nerve fibers.

## Symptoms

Nerves that stimulate movement (called the motor nerves) are most severely
affected. The nerves in the legs are affected first and most severely.

Symptoms most often begin between mid-childhood and early adulthood. They may
include:

      * Foot deformity (very high arch to feet)
      * Foot drop (inability to hold foot horizontal)
      * Loss of lower leg muscle, which leads to skinny calves
      * Numbness in the foot or leg
      * "Slapping" gait (feet hit the floor hard when walking)
      * Weakness of the hips, legs, or feet 

Later, similar symptoms may appear in the arms and hands. These may include a
claw-like hand.

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam may show:

      * Difficulty lifting up the foot and making toe-out movements (foot drop)
      * Lack of stretch reflexes in the legs
      * Loss of muscle control and atrophy (shrinking of the muscles) in the foot or leg
      * Thickened nerve bundles under the skin of the legs 

Nerve conduction tests are often done to identify different forms of the
disorder. A nerve biopsy may confirm the diagnosis.

Genetic testing is also available for most forms of the disease.

## Treatment

There is no known cure. Orthopedic surgery or equipment (such as braces or
orthopedic shoes) may make it easier to walk.

Physical and occupational therapy may help maintain muscle strength and
improve independent functioning.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease slowly gets worse. Some parts of the body may
become numb, and pain can range from mild to severe. Eventually the disease
may cause disability.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Progressive inability to walk 
      * Progressive weakness 
      * Injury to areas of the body that have decreased sensation

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if there is ongoing weakness or decreased
sensation in the feet or legs.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling and testing is advised if there is a strong family history
of the disorder.

## Alternative Names

Progressive neuropathic (peroneal) muscular atrophy; Hereditary peroneal nerve
dysfunction; Neuropathy - peroneal (hereditary); Hereditary motor and sensory
neuropathy

## Images

      * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Katirji B. Disorders of the peripheral nerves. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 107.

Sarnat HB. Hereditary motor-sensory neuropathies. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme
JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 631.

## Review Date 7/29/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Charcot-Marie-
Tooth-Disease_thumb.jpg)Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

