Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000350.htm    
                                Description: Hypervitaminosis A is a disorder in which there is too much vitamin A in the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hypervitaminosis A

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000350.htm

# Hypervitaminosis A

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hypervitaminosis A is a disorder in which there is too much vitamin A in the
body.

## Causes

Vitamin A is a fat-soluble vitamin that is stored in the liver. Many foods
contain vitamin A, including:

      * Meat, fish, and poultry
      * Dairy products
      * Some fruits and vegetables

Some dietary supplements also contain Vitamin A.

It is rare for vitamin A toxicity to occur just from vitamin A-rich foods.
Usually, supplements are involved.

Too much vitamin A can make you sick. Large doses of vitamin A during
pregnancy can cause birth defects.

      * Acute vitamin A poisoning occurs quickly, most often when an adult takes several hundred thousand international units (IUs) of vitamin A.
      * Chronic vitamin A poisoning may occur over time in adults who regularly take more than 25,000 IU a day.
      * Babies and children are more sensitive to vitamin A. They can become sick after taking smaller doses of vitamin A or if they swallow products that contain vitamin A, such as skin cream with retinol in it.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Abnormal softening of the skull bone (in infants and children)
      * Blurred vision
      * Bone pain or swelling
      * Bulging of the soft spot in an infant's skull (fontanelle)
      * Changes in alertness or consciousness
      * Decreased appetite
      * Dizziness
      * Double vision (in young children)
      * Drowsiness
      * Hair changes, such as hair loss and oily hair
      * Headache
      * Irritability
      * Liver damage
      * Nausea
      * Poor weight gain (in infants and children)
      * Skin changes, such as cracking at corners of the mouth, higher sensitivity to sunlight, oily skin, peeling, itching, and yellow color to the skin
      * Vision changes
      * Vomiting 

## Exams and Tests

These tests may be done if a high vitamin A level is suspected:

      * Bone x-rays
      * Blood calcium test
      * Cholesterol test
      * Liver function test
      * Blood test to check vitamin A level
      * Blood test to check other vitamin levels

## Treatment

Treatment involves simply stopping supplements (or in rare cases, foods) that
contain vitamin A.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people fully recover.

## Possible Complications

Complications can include:

      * Excessively high calcium level
      * Failure to thriveÂ (in infants)
      * Kidney damage due to high calcium
      * Liver damage 

Taking too much vitamin A during pregnancy may cause abnormal development in
the growing baby. Talk to your health care provider about eating a proper diet
while you are pregnant.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you think that you or your child may have taken too much
vitamin A, or you have symptoms of excess vitamin A.

## Prevention

How much vitamin AÂ you need depends on your age and gender. Other factors,
such as pregnancy and your overall health, are also important. Ask your
provider what amount is best for you.

To avoid hypervitaminosis A, avoid taking more than the recommended daily
allowance of this vitamin. Emphasis on vitamin A and beta carotene as
anticancer vitamins may contribute to chronic hypervitaminosis A if people
take more than is recommended.

## Alternative Names

Vitamin A toxicity

## Images

      * ![Vitamin A source](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18097t.jpg)Vitamin A source

## References

Institute of Medicine (US) Panel on Micronutrients.Â _Dietary Reference
Intakes for Vitamin A, Vitamin K, Arsenic, Boron, Chromium, Copper, Iodine,
Iron, Manganese, Molybdenum, Nickel, Silicon, Vanadium, and Zinc_. Washington,
DC: National Academies Press; 2001. PMID: 25057538Â
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25057538.

Mason JB. Vitamins, trace minerals, and other micronutrients. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 218.

Ross AC, Tan L. Vitamin A deficiencies and excess. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 48.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Vitamin A](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VitaminA_thumb.jpg)Vitamin A _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

