Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000791.htm    
                                Description: Cardiac rehabilitation (rehab) is a program that helps you live better with heart disease. It is often prescribed to help you recover from a heart attack, heart surgery, or other procedures, or if you    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cardiac rehabilitation

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000791.htm

# Cardiac rehabilitation

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cardiac rehabilitation (rehab) is a program that helps you live better with
heart disease. It is often prescribed to help you recover from a heart attack,
heart surgery, or other procedures, or if you have heart failure.

These programs most often include both education and exercise. The goal of
cardiac rehab is to:

      * Improve your cardiovascular function
      * Improve your overall health and quality of life
      * Reduce symptoms
      * Reduce your risk of future heart problems 

## Who Needs Rehab

Cardiac rehab can help anyone who has had a heart attack or other heart
problem. You might consider cardiac rehab if you have had:

      * Heart attack
      * Coronary heart disease (CHD)
      * Heart failure
      * Angina (chest pain)
      * Heart or heart valve surgery
      * Heart transplant
      * Procedures such as angioplasty and stenting 

In some cases, your health care provider may refer you to rehab if you have
had a heart attack or heart surgery. If your provider does not mention rehab,
you can ask if it might help you.

## Benefits of Cardiac Rehab

Cardiac rehab may help you:

      * Improve your quality of life
      * Lower your risk of having a heart attack or another heart attack
      * Perform your daily tasks more easily
      * Increase your activity level and improve your fitness
      * Learn how to eat a heart-healthy diet
      * Lose weight
      * Quit smoking
      * Lower blood pressure and cholesterol
      * Improve blood sugar control
      * Reduce stress
      * Lower your risk of dying from a heart condition
      * Stay independent 

## What to Expect

You will work with a rehab team that may include many kinds of medical
professionals including:

      * Heart doctors
      * Nurses
      * Dieticians
      * Physical therapists
      * Exercise specialists
      * Occupational therapists
      * Mental health specialists

Your rehab team will design a program that is safe for you. Before you start,
the team will assess your overall health. A provider will do an exam and may
ask you questions about your health and medical history. You may also have
some tests to check your heart.

Most rehab programs last from 3 to 6 months. Your program may be longer or
shorter depending on your condition.

Most rehab programs cover several different areas:

      * Exercise. Regular exercise helps strengthen your heart and improve your overall health. During your sessions you may start with about a 5-minute warm up followed by about 20 minutes of aerobics. The goal is to get to about 70% to 80% of your maximum heart rate. You will then cool down for about 5 to 15 minutes. You may also may do some light weightlifting or use weight machines as part of your routine. At first, your team will monitor your heart while you are exercising. You will start slowly, and increase your physical activity over time. Your rehab team may also suggest you do other activities, such as walking or yard work, on days you are not at the program.
      * Healthy eating. Your team will help you learn how to make healthy food choices. They can help you plan a diet to help manage health problems, such as diabetes, obesity, high blood pressure, or high cholesterol.
      * Education. Your rehab team will teach you other ways to stay healthy, such as quitting smoking. If you have a health condition, such as diabetes, CHD, or high blood pressure, your rehab team will teach you how to manage it.
      * Support. Your rehab team will help support you in making these lifestyle changes. They can also help you cope with anxiety or depression.

## Choosing a Program

If you are in the hospital, your rehab program may start while you are there.
Once you go home, you will likely go to a rehab center in your area. It might
be in:

      * The hospital
      * A skilled nursing faculty
      * Another location 

Your provider may refer you to a rehab center, or you might need to choose one
yourself. When choosing a rehab center, keep a few things in mind:

      * Is the center close to your home?
      * Is the program at a time that is good for you?
      * Can you get to the center easily?
      * Does the program have the services you need?
      * Is the program covered by your insurance? 

If you cannot get to a rehab center, you may have a form of rehab you do in
your home.

## Alternative Names

Cardiac rehab; Heart attack - cardiac rehab; Coronary heart disease - cardiac
rehab; Coronary artery disease - cardiac rehab; Angina - cardiac rehab; Heart
failure - cardiac rehab

## References

Anderson L, Taylor RS. Cardiac rehabilitation for people with heart disease:
an overview of Cochrane systematic reviews. _Cochrane Database Syst Rev_.
2014;12:CD011273. PMID: 25503364 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25503364.

Balady GJ, Ades PA, Bittner VA, et al. Referral, enrollment, and delivery of
cardiac rehabilitation/secondary prevention programs at clinical centers and
beyond: A presidential advisory from the American Heart Association.
_Circulation_. 2011;124(25):2951-2960. PMID: 22082676
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22082676.

Balady GJ, Williams MA, Ades PA, et al. Core components of cardiac
rehabilitation/secondary prevention programs: 2007 Update: A scientific
statement from the American Heart Association Exercise, Cardiac
Rehabilitation, and Prevention Committee, the Council on Clinical Cardiology;
the councils on Cardiovascular Nursing, Epidemiology and Prevention, and
Nutrition, Physical activity, and Metabolism; and the American Association of
Cardiovascular and Pulmonary Rehabilitation. _J Cardiopulm Rehabil Prev_.
2007;27(3):121-129. PMID: 17558191 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17558191.

Smith SC Jr, Benjamin EJ, Bonow RO, et al. AHA/ACCF secondary prevention and
risk reduction therapy for patients with coronary and other atherosclerotic
vascular disease: 2011 update: a guideline from the American Heart Association
and American College of Cardiology Foundation. _Circulation_.
2011;124(22):2458-2473. PMID: 22052934 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22052934.

Thompson PD, Ades PA. Exercise-based, comprehensive cardiac rehabilitation.
In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2019:chap 54.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cardiac Rehabilitation

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

