Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000273.htm    
                                Description: Gallstones are hard deposits that form inside the gallbladder. These may be as small as a grain of sand or as large as a golf ball.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gallstones

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000273.htm

# Gallstones

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Gallstones are hard deposits that form inside the gallbladder. These may be as
small as a grain of sand or as large as a golf ball.

![Cholelithiasis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17039.jpg)

## Causes

The cause of gallstones varies. There are two main types of gallstones:

      * Stones made of cholesterol -- This is the most common type. Cholesterol gallstones are not related to cholesterol level in the blood. In most cases, they are not visible on CT scans.
      * Stones made of bilirubin -- These are called pigment stones. They occur when red blood cells are destroyed and too much bilirubin is in the bile. 

Gallstones are more common in:

      * Female gender
      * Native Americans and people of Hispanic descent
      * People over age 40
      * People who are overweight
      * People with family history of gallstones

The following factors also make you more likely to develop gallstones:

      * Bone marrow or solid organ transplant
      * Diabetes
      * Failure of the gallbladder to empty bile properly (this is more likely to happen during pregnancy)
      * Liver cirrhosis and biliary tract infections (pigmented stones)
      * Medical conditions that cause too many red blood cells to be destroyed
      * Rapid weight loss from eating a very low-calorie diet, or after weight loss surgery
      * Receiving nutrition through a vein for a long period of time (intravenous feedings)
      * Taking birth control pills 

## Symptoms

Many people with gallstones do not have any symptoms. These are often found
during a routine x-ray, abdominal surgery, or other medical procedure.

However, if a large stone blocks a tube or duct that drains the gallbladder,
you may have a cramping pain in the middle to right upper abdomen. This is
known as biliary colic. The pain goes away if the stone passes into the first
part of the small intestine.

Symptoms that may occur include:

      * Pain in the right upper or middle upper abdomen for at least 30 minutes. The pain may be constant or cramping. It can feel sharp or dull.
      * Fever.
      * Yellowing of skin and whites of the eyes (jaundice).

Other symptoms may include:

      * Clay-colored stools
      * Nausea and vomiting 

## Exams and Tests

Tests used to detect gallstones or gallbladder inflammation include:

      * Ultrasound, abdomen
      * CT scan, abdomen
      * Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP)
      * Gallbladder radionuclide scan
      * Endoscopic ultrasound
      * Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP)
      * Percutaneous transhepatic cholangiogram (PTCA) 

Your health care provider may order the following blood tests:

      * Bilirubin
      * Liver function tests
      * Complete blood count
      * Pancreatic enzyme

## Treatment

SURGERY

Most of the time, surgery is not needed unless symptoms begin. However, people
planning weight loss surgery may need to have gallstones removed before
undergoing the procedure. In general, people who have symptoms will need
surgery right away or soon after the stone is found.

      * A technique called laparoscopic cholecystectomy is most commonly used. This procedure uses small surgical incisions, which allow for a faster recovery. A patient can often go home from the hospital within 1 day of surgery.
      * In the past, open cholecystectomy (gallbladder removal) was most often done. However, this technique is less common now. 

Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) and a procedure called a
sphincterotomy may be done to find or treat gallstones in the common bile
duct.

MEDICINES

Medicines may be given in pill form to dissolve cholesterol gallstones.
However, these drugs may take 2 years or longer to work, and the stones may
return after treatment ends.

Rarely, chemicals are passed into the gallbladder through a catheter. The
chemical rapidly dissolves cholesterol stones. This treatment is hard to
perform, so it is not done very often. The chemicals used can be toxic, and
the gallstones may return.

LITHOTRIPSY

Shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) of the gallbladder has also been used for people
who cannot have surgery. This treatment is not used as often as it once was
because gallstones often come back.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

You may need to be on a liquid diet or take other steps to give your
gallbladder a rest after you are treated. Your provider will give you
instructions when you leave the hospital.

The chance of symptoms or complications from gallstones surgery is low. Nearly
all people who have gallbladder surgery do not have their symptoms return.

## Possible Complications

Blockage by gallstones may cause swelling or infection in the:

      * Gallbladder (cholecystitis)
      * Tube that carries bile from the liver to the gallbladder and intestines (cholangitis)
      * Pancreas (pancreatitis)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

      * Pain in the upper part of your abdomen
      * Yellowing of the skin or whites of the eyes

## Prevention

In most people, gallstones can't be prevented. In people who are obese,
avoiding rapid weight lossÂ may helpÂ prevent gallstones.

## Alternative Names

Cholelithiasis; Gallbladder attack; Biliary colic; Gallstone attack; Biliary
calculus: gallstones chenodeoxycholic acids (CDCA); Ursodeoxycholic acid
(UDCA, ursodiol); Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) -
gallstones

## Patient Instructions

      * Gallbladder removal - laparoscopic - discharge
      * Gallbladder removal - open - discharge
      * Gallstones - discharge

## Images

      * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
      * ![Kidney cyst with gallstones - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1173t.jpg)Kidney cyst with gallstones - CT scan
      * ![Gallstones, cholangiogram](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1163t.jpg)Gallstones, cholangiogram
      * ![Cholecystolithiasis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1156t.jpg)Cholecystolithiasis
      * ![Cholelithiasis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17039t.jpg)Cholelithiasis
      * ![Gallbladder](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19261t.jpg)Gallbladder
      * ![Gallbladder removal - Series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7096t.jpg)Gallbladder removal - Series

## References

Fogel EL, Sherman S. Diseases of the gallbladder and bile ducts. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 155.

Jackson PG, Evans SRT. Biliary system. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers
BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 54.

Wang D Q-H, Afdhal NH. Gallstone disease. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt
LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 65.

## Review Date 3/26/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Gallstones](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Gallstones_thumb.jpg)Gallstones
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

