Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000196.htm    
                                Description: You have gallstones. These are hard, pebble-like deposits that formed inside your gallbladder. This article tells you how to take care of yourself when you leave the hospital.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gallstones - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000196.htm

# Gallstones - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You have gallstones. These are hard, pebble-like deposits that formed inside
your gallbladder. This article tells you how to take care of yourself when you
leave the hospital.

## When You're in the Hospital

You may have had an infection in your gallbladder. You may have received drugs
to reduce the swelling and fight the infection. You may have surgery to remove
your gallbladder or to remove a gallstone that is blocking a bile duct.

## What to Expect at Home

You may continue to have pain and other symptoms if your gallstones return or
were not removed.

## Self-care

You may be on a liquid diet for some time to give your gallbladder a rest.
When you are eating regular food again, avoid overeating. If you are
overweight try to lose weight.

Take acetaminophen (Tylenol) for pain. Ask your health care provider about
stronger pain medicines.

Take any medicines you have been given to fight infection the way you were
told to. You may be able to take medicines that dissolve gallstones, but they
may take 6 months to 2 years to work.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have:

      * Steady, severe pain in your upper belly
      * Pain in your back, between your shoulder blades that does not go away and is getting worse
      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Fever or chills
      * Yellow color to your skin and the whites of your eyes (jaundice)
      * Grey or chalky white bowel movements 

## Alternative Names

Chronic cholecystitis - discharge; Dysfunctional gallbladder - discharge;
Choledocholithiasis - discharge; Cholelithiasis - discharge; Acute
cholecystitis

## Images

      * ![Cholelithiasis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17039t.jpg)Cholelithiasis

## References

Fagenholz PJ, Velmahos G. The management of acute cholecystitis. In: Cameron
JL, Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:430-433.

Fogel EL, Sherman S. Diseases of the gallbladder and bile ducts. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 155.

Glasgow RE, Mulvihill SJ. Treatment of gallstone disease. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 66.

## Read More

      * Abdominal pain
      * Acute cholecystitis
      * Chronic cholecystitis
      * Gallstones

## Patient Instructions

      * Clear liquid diet
      * Full liquid diet
      * Pancreatitis - discharge
      * Wet-to-dry dressing changes

## Review Date 10/31/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Gallstones

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

