Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000274.htm    
                                Description: Choledocholithiasis is the presence of at least one gallstone in the common bile duct. The stone may be made up of bile pigments or calcium and cholesterol salts.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Choledocholithiasis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000274.htm

# Choledocholithiasis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Choledocholithiasis is the presence of at least one gallstone in the common
bile duct. The stone may be made up of bile pigments or calcium and
cholesterol salts.

## Causes

AboutÂ 1 inÂ 7 people with gallstones will develop stones in the common bile
duct. This is the small tube that carries bile from the gallbladder to the
intestine.

Risk factors include a history of gallstones. However, choledocholithiasis can
occur in people who have had their gallbladder removed.

## Symptoms

Often, there are no symptoms unless the stone blocks the common bile duct.
Symptoms may include:

      * Pain in the right upper or middle upper abdomen for at least 30 minutes. The pain may be constant and intense. It can be mild or severe.
      * Fever.
      * Yellowing of skin and whites of the eyes (jaundice).
      * Loss of appetite.
      * Nausea and vomiting.
      * Clay-colored stools.

## Exams and Tests

Tests that show the location of stones in the bile duct include the following:

      * Abdominal CT scan
      * Abdominal ultrasound
      * Endoscopic retrograde cholangiography (ERCP)
      * Endoscopic ultrasound
      * Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP)
      * Percutaneous transhepatic cholangiogram (PTCA)

Your health care provider may order the following blood tests:

      * Bilirubin
      * Complete blood count (CBC)
      * Liver function tests
      * Pancreatic enzymes

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to relieve the blockage.

Treatment may involve:

      * Surgery to remove the gallbladder and stones
      * ERCP and a procedure called a sphincterotomy, which makes a surgical cut into the muscle in the common bile duct to allow stones to pass or be removed

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Blockage and infection caused by stones in the biliary tract can be life
threatening. Most of the time, the outcome is good if the problem is detected
and treated early.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Biliary cirrhosis
      * Cholangitis
      * Pancreatitis 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You develop abdominal pain, with or without fever, and there is no known cause
      * You develop jaundice
      * You have other symptoms of choledocholithiasis

## Alternative Names

Gallstone in the bile duct; Bile duct stone

## Images

      * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
      * ![Kidney cyst with gallstones - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1173t.jpg)Kidney cyst with gallstones - CT scan
      * ![Choledocholithiasis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17038t.jpg)Choledocholithiasis
      * ![Gallbladder](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19260t.jpg)Gallbladder
      * ![Gallbladder](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19261t.jpg)Gallbladder
      * ![Bile pathway](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8794t.jpg)Bile pathway

## References

Almeida R, Zenlea T. Choledocholithiasis. In: Ferri FF, ed. _Ferri's Clinical
Advisor 2019_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:317-318.

Fogel EL, Sherman S. Diseases of the gallbladder and bile ducts. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 155.

Jackson PG, Evans SRT. Biliary system. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers
BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery._ 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 54.

## Review Date 3/26/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Gallstones](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Gallstones_thumb.jpg)Gallstones
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

