Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007680.htm    
                                Description: The inner lining of the heart chambers and heart valves is called the endocardium. Endocarditis occurs when this tissue becomes swollen or inflamed.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Endocarditis - children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007680.htm

# Endocarditis - children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The inner lining of the heart chambers and heart valves is called the
endocardium. Endocarditis occurs when this tissue becomes swollen or inflamed.

## Causes

Endocarditis occurs when germs enter the bloodstream and then travel to the
heart.

      * Bacterial infection is the most common cause
      * Fungal infections are much more rare
      * In some cases, no germs can be found after testing 

Endocarditis can involve the heart muscle, heart valves, or lining of the
heart. Children with endocarditis may have a:

      * Birth defect of the heart
      * Damaged or abnormal heart valve
      * New heart valve after surgery 

The risk is higher in children who have a history of heart surgery, which can
leave rough areas in the lining of the heart chambers.

This makes it easier for bacteria to stick to the lining.

Germs are most likely to enter the bloodstream:

      * By way of a central venous access line that is in place
      * During dental surgery
      * During other surgeries or minor procedures to the airways and lungs, urinary tract, infected skin, or bones and muscles 

## Symptoms

Symptoms of endocarditis may develop slowly or suddenly.

Fever, chills, and sweating are frequent symptoms. These sometimes can:

      * Be present for days before any other symptoms appear
      * Come and go, or be more noticeable at nighttime 

Other symptoms may include:

      * Tiredness
      * Weakness
      * Joint pain
      * Muscle pain
      * Trouble breathing
      * Weight loss 

Neurological problems, such as seizures and, disturbed mental status

Signs of endocarditis can also include:

      * Small bleeding areas under the nails (splinter hemorrhages)
      * Red, painless skin spots on the palms and soles (Janeway lesions)
      * Red, painful nodes in the pads of the fingers and toes (Osler nodes)
      * Shortness of breath
      * Swelling of feet, legs, abdomen 

## Exams and Tests

Your child's health care provider may perform transthoracic echocardiography
(TTE) to check for endocarditis in children age 10 years or younger.

Other tests may include:

      * Blood culture to help identify the bacteria or fungus that is causing the infection
      * Complete blood count (CBC)
      * C-reactive protein (CRP) or erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)

## Treatment

Treatment for endocarditis depends upon the:

      * Cause of the infection
      * Child's age
      * Severity of the symptoms

Your child will need to be in the hospital to receive antibiotics through a
vein (IV). Blood cultures and tests will help the provider choose the best
antibiotic.

Your child will need long-term antibiotic therapy.

      * Your child will need this therapy for 4 to 8 weeks to fully kill all the bacteria from the heart chambers and valves.
      * Antibiotic treatments started in the hospital will need to be continued at home once your child is stable.

Surgery to replace an infected heart valve may be needed when:

      * Antibiotics don't work to treat the infection
      * The infection is breaking off in little pieces, resulting in strokes
      * The child develops heart failure as a result of damaged heart valves
      * The heart valve is badly damaged

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Getting treatment for endocarditis right away improves the chances of clearing
the infection and preventing complications.

## Possible Complications

The possible complications of endocarditis in children are:

      * Damage to the heart and heart valves
      * Abscess in the heart muscle
      * Infective clot in the coronary arteries 
      * Stroke, caused by small clots or pieces of the infection breaking off and traveling to the brain
      * Spread of the infection to other parts of the body, such as the lungs

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your child's provider if you notice the following symptoms during or
after treatment:

      * Blood in urine
      * Chest pain
      * Fatigue
      * Fever
      * Numbness
      * Weakness
      * Weight loss without a change in diet

## Prevention

The American Heart Association recommends preventive antibiotics for children
at risk for endocarditis, such as those with:

      * Certain birth defects of the heart
      * Heart transplant and valve problems
      * Man-made (prosthetic) heart valves
      * A past history of endocarditis

These children should receive antibiotics when they have:

      * Dental procedures that are likely to cause bleeding
      * Procedures involving the breathing tract, the urinary tract, or the digestive tract
      * Procedures on skin infections and soft tissue infections

## Alternative Names

Valve infection - children; Staphylococcus aureus - endocarditis - children;
Enterococcus - endocarditis- children; Streptococcus viridians - endocarditis
- children; Candida - endocarditis - children; Bacterial endocarditis -
children; Infective endocarditis - children; Congenital heart disease -
endocarditis - children

## References

Baltimore RS, Gewitz M, Baddour LM, et al; American Heart Association
Rheumatic Fever, Endocarditis, and Kawasaki Disease Committee of the Council
on Cardiovascular Disease in the Young and the Council on Cardiovascular and
Stroke Nursing. Infective endocarditis in childhood: 2015 update: a scientific
statement from the American Heart Association. _Circulation_.
2015;132(15):1487-1515. PMID: 26373317 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26373317.

Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM. Infective endocarditis. In: Marcdante KJ, Kliegman
RM, eds. _Nelson Essentials of Pediatrics_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 111.

Mick NW. Pediatric fever. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 166.

Kaplan SL, Vallejo JG. Infective endocarditis. In: Cherry JD, Harrison GJ,
Kaplan SL, Steinbach WJ, Hotez PJ, eds. _Feigin and Cherry's Textbook of
Pediatric Infectious Diseases_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2019:chap 26.

## Review Date 5/20/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Endocarditis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Endocarditis_thumb.jpg)Endocarditis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

