Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001098.htm    
                                Description: Endocarditis is inflammation of the inside lining of the heart chambers and heart valves (endocardium). It is caused by a bacterial or, rarely a fungal infection.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Endocarditis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001098.htm

# Endocarditis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Endocarditis is inflammation of the inside lining of the heart chambers and
heart valves (endocardium). It is caused by a bacterial or, rarely a fungal
infection.

## Causes

Endocarditis can involve the heart muscle, heart valves, or lining of the
heart. Some people who develop endocarditis have a:

      * Birth defect of the heart
      * Damaged or abnormal heart valve
      * History of endocarditis
      * New heart valve after surgery
      * Parenteral (intravenous) drug addiction

Endocarditis begins when germs enter the bloodstream and then travel to the
heart.

      * Bacterial infection is the most common cause of endocarditis.
      * Endocarditis can also be caused by fungi, such as Candida.
      * In some cases, no cause can be found.

Germs are most likely to enter the bloodstream during:

      * Central venous access lines 
      * Injection drug use, from the use of unclean (unsterile) needles
      * Recent dental surgery
      * Other surgeries or minor procedures to the breathing tract, urinary tract, infected skin, or bones and muscles

## Symptoms

Symptoms of endocarditis may develop slowly or suddenly.

Fever, chills, and sweating are frequent symptoms. These sometimes can:

      * Be present for days before any other symptoms appear
      * Come and go, or be more noticeable at nighttime 

You may also have fatigue, weakness, and aches and pains in the muscles or
joints.

Other signs can include:

      * Small areas of bleeding under the nails (splinter hemorrhages)
      * Red, painless skin spots on the palms and soles (Janeway lesions)
      * Red, painful nodes in the pads of the fingers and toes (Osler nodes)
      * Shortness of breath with activity
      * Swelling of feet, legs, abdomen 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider may detect a new heart murmur, or a change in a past
heart murmur.

An eye exam may show bleeding in the retina and a central area of clearing.
This finding is known as Roth spots. There may be small, pinpoint areas of
bleeding on the surface of the eye or the eyelids.

Tests that may be done include:

      * Blood culture to help identify the bacteria or fungus that is causing the infection
      * Complete blood count (CBC), C-reactive protein (CRP), or erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)
      * AnÂ echocardiogram to look at the heart valves 

## Treatment

You may need to be in hospital to get antibiotics through a vein (IV or
intravenously). Blood cultures and tests will help your provider choose the
best antibiotic.

You will then need long-term antibiotic therapy.

      * People most often need therapy for 4 to 6 weeks to kill all the bacteria from the heart chambers and valves.
      * Antibiotic treatments that are started in the hospital will need to be continued at home. 

Surgery to replace the heart valve is often needed when:

      * The infection is breaking off in little pieces, resulting in strokes.
      * The person develops heart failure as a result of damaged heart valves.
      * There is evidence of more severe organ damage. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Getting treatment for endocarditis right away improves the chances of a good
outcome.

More serious problems that may develop include:

      * Brain abscess
      * Further damage to the heart valves, causing heart failure
      * Spread of the infection to other parts of the body
      * Stroke, caused by small clots or pieces of the infection breaking off and traveling to the brain 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you notice the following symptoms during or after
treatment:

      * Blood in urine
      * Chest pain
      * Fatigue
      * Fever that doesn't go away
      * Fever
      * Numbness
      * Weakness
      * Weight loss without change in diet 

## Prevention

The American Heart Association recommends preventive antibiotics for people at
risk for infectious endocarditis, such as those with:

      * Certain birth defects of the heart
      * Heart transplant and valve problems
      * Prosthetic heart valves (heart valves inserted by a surgeon)
      * Past history of endocarditis 

These people should receive antibiotics when they have:

      * Dental procedures that are likely to cause bleeding
      * Procedures involving the breathing tract
      * Procedures involving the urinary tract system
      * Procedures involving the digestive tract
      * Procedures on skin infections and soft tissue infections 

## Alternative Names

Valve infection; Staphylococcus aureus - endocarditis; Enterococcus -
endocarditis; Streptococcus viridans - endocarditis; Candida - endocarditis

## Patient Instructions

      * Heart valve surgery - discharge 

## Images

      * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
      * ![Heart - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view
      * ![Janeway lesion - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1805t.jpg)Janeway lesion - close-up
      * ![Janeway lesion on the finger](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2455t.jpg)Janeway lesion on the finger
      * ![Heart valves](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9380t.jpg)Heart valves

## References

Baddour LM, Freeman WK, Suri RM, Wilson WR. Cardiovascular infections. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 73.

Baddour LM, Wilson WR, Bayer AS, et al. Infective endocarditis in adults:
diagnosis, antimicrobial therapy, and management of complications: a
scientific statement for healthcare professionals from the American Heart
Association. _Circulation_. 2015;132(15):1435-1486. PMID: 26373316
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26373316.

Fowler VG, Bayer AS, Baddour LM. Infective endocarditis. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 76.

Fowler VG, Scheld WM, Bayer AS. Endocarditis and intravascular infections. In:
Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 82.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Endocarditis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Endocarditis_thumb.jpg)Endocarditis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

