Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000027.htm    
                                Description: Poison ivy, oak, and sumac are plants that commonly cause an allergic skin reaction. The result is most often an itchy, red rash with bumps or blisters.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Poison ivy - oak - sumac rash

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000027.htm

# Poison ivy - oak - sumac rash

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Poison ivy, oak, and sumac are plants that commonly cause an allergic skin
reaction. The result is most often an itchy, red rash with bumps or blisters.

## Causes

The rash is caused by skin contact with the oils (resin) of certain plants.
The oils most often enter the skin rapidly.

POISON IVY

      * This is one of the most frequent causes of skin rash among children and adults who spend time outdoors.
      * The plant has 3 shiny green leaves and a red stem. 

Poison ivy typically grows in the form of a vine, often along riverbanks. It
can be found throughout much of the United States.

POISON OAK

This plant grows in the form of a shrub and has 3 leaves similar to poison
ivy. Poison oak is mostly found on the West Coast.

POISON SUMAC

This plant grows as a woody shrub. Each stem contains 7 to 13 leaves arranged
in pairs. Poison sumac grows abundantly along the Mississippi River.

AFTER CONTACT WITH THESE PLANTS

      * The rash does not spread by the fluid from the blisters. Therefore, once a person has washed the oil off the skin, the rash does not often spread from person to person.
      * The plant oils may remain for a long time on clothing, pets, tools, shoes, and other surfaces. Contact with these items can cause rashes in the future if they are not cleaned well. 

Smoke from burning these plants can cause the same reaction.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Extreme itching
      * Red, streaky, patchy rash where the plant touched the skin
      * Red bumps, which may form large, weeping blisters

The reaction can vary from mild to severe. In rare cases, the person with the
rash needs to be treated in the hospital. The worst symptoms are often seen
during days 4 to 7 after coming in contact with the plant. The rash may last
for 1 to 3 weeks.

## First Aid

First aid includes:

      * Wash the skin thoroughly with soap and warm water. Because the plant oil enters skin quickly, try to wash it off within 30 minutes.
      * Scrub under the fingernails with a brush to prevent the plant oil from spreading to other parts of the body.
      * Wash clothing and shoes with soap and hot water. The plant oils can linger on them.
      * Immediately bathe animals to remove the oils from their fur.
      * Body heat and sweating can aggravate the itching. Stay cool and apply cool compresses to your skin.
      * Calamine lotion and hydrocortisone cream can be applied to the skin to reduce itching and blistering.
      * Bathing in lukewarm water with an oatmeal bath product, available in drugstores, may soothe itchy skin. Aluminum acetate (Domeboro solution) soaks can help to dry the rash and reduce itching.
      * If creams, lotions, or bathing do not stop the itching, antihistamines may be helpful.
      * In severe cases, especially for a rash around the face or genitals, the health care provider may prescribe steroids, taken by mouth or given by injection.
      * Wash tools and other objects with a dilute bleach solution or rubbing alcohol.

## DO NOT

In case of an allergy:

      * Do NOT touch skin or clothing that still have the plant resins on the surface.
      * Do NOT burn poison ivy, oak, or sumac to get rid of it. The resins can be spread via smoke and can cause severe reactions in people who are far downwind.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Get emergency medical treatment right away if:

      * The person is suffering from a severe allergic reaction, such as swelling or difficulty breathing, or has had a severe reaction in the past. 
      * The person has been exposed to the smoke of burning poison ivy, oak or sumac.

Call your provider if:

      * Itching is severe and cannot be controlled.
      * The rash affects your face, lips, eyes, or genitals.
      * The rash shows signs of infection, such as pus, yellow fluid leaking from blisters, odor, or increased tenderness. 

## Prevention

These steps can help you avoid contact:

      * Wear long sleeves, long pants, and socks when walking in areas where these plants may grow.
      * Apply skin products, such as Ivy Block lotion, beforehand to reduce the risk of a rash.

Other steps include:

      * Learn to identify poison ivy, oak, and sumac. Teach children to identify them as soon as they are able to learn about these plants. 
      * Remove these plants if they grow near your home (but never burn them). 
      * Be aware of plant resins carried by pets. 
      * Wash skin, clothing and other items as soon as possible after you think you may have come in contact with the plant.

## Images

      * ![Poison oak rash on the arm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1325t.jpg)Poison oak rash on the arm
      * ![Poison ivy on the knee](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2567t.jpg)Poison ivy on the knee
      * ![Poison ivy on the leg](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2568t.jpg)Poison ivy on the leg
      * ![Rash](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8908t.jpg)Rash

## References

Freeman EE, Paul S, Shofner JD, Kimball AB. Plant-induced dermatitis. In:
Auerbach PS, Cushing TA, Harris NS, eds. _Auerbach's Wilderness Medicine_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 64.

Habif TP. Contact dermatitis and patch testing. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 4.

Marco CA. Dermatologic presentations. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 110.

## Review Date 7/11/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Poison Ivy, Oak, and
Sumac](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PoisonIvy2_thumb.jpg)Poison Ivy, Oak,
and Sumac _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

