Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002886.htm    
                                Description: Poison ivy, oak, or sumac poisoning is an allergic reaction that results from touching the sap of these plants. The sap may be on the plant, in the ashes of burned plants, on an animal, or on other objects    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Poison ivy - oak - sumac

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002886.htm

# Poison ivy - oak - sumac

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Poison ivy, oak, or sumac poisoning is an allergic reaction that results from
touching the sap of these plants. The sap may be on the plant, in the ashes of
burned plants, on an animal, or on other objects that came in contact with the
plant, such as clothing, garden tools, and sports equipment.

Small amounts of sap can remain under a person's fingernails for several days.
It must be purposely removed with thorough cleaning.

Plants in this family are strong and hard to get rid of. They are found in
every state of the continental United States. They grow best along cool
streams and lakes. They grow especially well in areas that are sunny and hot.
They do not grow in Alaska or Hawaii. The also do not survive well above 1,500
m (5,000 feet), in deserts, or in rainforests.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poison exposure. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

One poisonous ingredient is the chemical urushiol.

## Where Found

The poisonous ingredient can be found in:

      * Bruised roots, stems, flowers, leaves, fruit
      * Pollen of poison ivy, poison oak, and poison sumac 

**Note:** This list may not be all-inclusive.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of exposure may include:

      * Blisters
      * Burning skin
      * Itching
      * Redness of the skin
      * Swelling 

In addition to the skin, symptoms can affect the eyes and mouth.

The rash may be spread by touching undried sap and moving it around the skin.

## Home Care

Wash the area right away with soap and water. Quickly washing the area can
prevent a reaction. However, it most often does not help if done more than 1
hour after touching the plant's sap. Flush the eyes out with water. Take care
to clean under the fingernails well to remove traces of toxin.

Carefully wash any contaminated objects or clothing alone in hot soapy water.
DO NOT let the items touch any other clothing or materials.

An over-the-counter antihistamine such as Benadryl or a steroid cream may help
relieve itching.

## Before Calling Emergency

Get the following information:

      * Person's age, weight, and condition
      * Name of the plant, if known
      * Amount swallowed (if swallowed)

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
This hotline number will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They will give
you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does not need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Unless the reaction is severe, the person will probably not need to visit the
emergency room. If you are concerned, call your health care provider or poison
control.

At the provider's office, the person may receive:

      * Antihistamine or steroids by mouth or applied to the skin
      * Washing of the skin (irrigation)

Take a sample of the plant with you to the doctor or hospital, if possible.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Life-threatening reactions may occur if the poisonous ingredients are
swallowed or are breathed in (which can happen when the plants are burned).

Typical skin rashes most often go away without any long-term problems. A skin
infection may develop if the affected areas are not kept clean.

Wear protective clothing whenever possible when travelling through areas where
these plants grow. DO NOT touch or eat any unfamiliar plant. Wash your hands
after working in the garden or walking in the woods.

## Alternative Names

Sumac - poisonous; Oak - poisonous; Ivy - poisonous

## Images

      * ![Poison oak rash on the arm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1325t.jpg)Poison oak rash on the arm
      * ![Poison ivy on the knee](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2567t.jpg)Poison ivy on the knee
      * ![Poison ivy on the leg](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2568t.jpg)Poison ivy on the leg

## References

Freeman EE, Paul S, Shofner JD, Kimball AB. Plant-induced dermatitis. In:
Auerbach PS, Cushing TA, Harris NS, eds. _Auerbach's Wilderness Medicine_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 64.

McGovern TW. Dermatoses due to plants. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Cerroni
L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 17.

## Review Date 10/16/2017

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Poison Ivy, Oak, and
Sumac](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PoisonIvy2_thumb.jpg)Poison Ivy, Oak,
and Sumac _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

