Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003897.htm    
                                Description: The Bernstein test is a method to reproduce symptoms of heartburn. It is most often done with other tests to measure esophageal function.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bernstein test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003897.htm

# Bernstein test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The Bernstein test is a method to reproduce symptoms of heartburn. It is most
often done with other tests to measure esophageal function.

## How the Test is Performed

The test is done in a gastroenterology laboratory. A nasogastric (NG) tube is
passed through one side of your nose and into your esophagus. Mild
hydrochloric acid will be sent down the tube, followed by salt water (saline)
solution. This process may be repeated several times.

You will be asked to tell the health care team about any pain or discomfort
you have during the test.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You will be asked not to eat or drink anything for 8 hours before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

You may have a gagging feeling and some discomfort when the tube is put in
place. The acid may cause symptoms of heartburn. Your throat may be sore after
the test.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test tries to reproduce symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux (stomach acids
coming back up into the esophagus). It is done to see if you have the
condition.

## Normal Results

The test results will be negative.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A positive test shows that your symptoms are caused by esophageal reflux of
acid from the stomach.

## Risks

There is a risk of gagging or vomiting.

## Alternative Names

Acid perfusion test

## Images

      * ![Stomach and stomach lining](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8731t.jpg)Stomach and stomach lining

## References

Bremner RM, Mittal SK. Esophageal symptoms and selection of diagnostic tests.
In: Yeo CJ, ed. _Shackleford's Surgery of the Alimentary Tract_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 5.

Kavitt RT, Vaezi MF. Diseases of the esophagus. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund
V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 69.

Pandolfino JE, Kahrilas PJ. Esophageal neuromuscular function and motility
disorders. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and
Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 43.

## Review Date 10/27/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![GERD](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GERD_thumb.jpg)GERD _Read more_

![Heartburn](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Heartburn2_thumb.jpg)Heartburn
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

