Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000225.htm    
                                Description: You have gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). This condition causes food or stomach acid to come back into your esophagus from your stomach. This process is called esophageal reflux. It can cause heartburn,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heartburn - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000225.htm

# Heartburn - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You have gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). This condition causes food or
stomach acid to come back into your esophagus from your stomach. This process
is called esophageal reflux. It can cause heartburn, chest pain, cough, or
hoarseness.

Below are questions you may want to ask your health care provider to help you
take care of your heartburn and reflux.

## Questions

If I have heartburn, can I treat myself or do I need to see the doctor?

What foods will make my heartburn worse?

How can I change the way I eat to help my heartburn?

      * How long should I wait after eating before lying down?
      * How long should I wait after eating before exercising? 

Will losing weight help my symptoms?

Do cigarettes, alcohol, and caffeine make my heartburn worse?

If I have heartburn at night, what changes should I make to my bed?

What medicines will help my heartburn?

      * Will antacids help my heartburn?
      * Will other medicines help my symptoms?
      * Do I need a prescription to buy heartburn medicines?
      * Do these drugs have side effects? 

How do I know if I have a more serious problem?

      * When should I call the doctor?
      * What other tests or procedures will I need if my heartburn does not go away?
      * Can heartburn be a sign of cancer? 

Are there surgeries that help with heartburn and esophageal reflux?

      * How are the surgeries done? What are the risks?
      * How well do the surgeries work?
      * Will I still need to take medicine for my reflux after surgery?
      * Will I ever need to have another surgery for my reflux? 

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about heartburn and reflux; Reflux - what to ask your
doctor; GERD - what to ask your doctor; Gastroesophageal reflux disease - what
to ask your doctor

## References

Katz PO, Gerson LB, Vela MF. Guidelines for the diagnosis and management of
gastroesophageal reflux disease. _Am J Gastroenterol_. 2013;108(3):308-328.
PMID: 23419381 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23419381.

National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases website. Acid
reflux (GER & GERD) in adults. www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/digestive-
diseases/acid-reflux-ger-gerd-adults. Updated November 2014. Accessed February
27, 2019.

Richter JE, Friedenberg FK. Gastroesophageal reflux disease. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 44.

## Read More

      * Anti-reflux surgery
      * Anti-reflux surgery - children
      * Gastroesophageal reflux disease
      * Heartburn

## Patient Instructions

      * Anti-reflux surgery - children - discharge 
      * Anti-reflux surgery - discharge 
      * Gastroesophageal reflux - discharge
      * Taking antacids

## Review Date 2/6/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Heartburn

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

