Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000068.htm    
                                Description: Eating spicy foods, such as pizza, may cause a person to feel heartburn. Although the name may imply the heart, heartburn has nothing to do with the heart itself. Heartburn is pain felt in the chest by    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Videos & Tools ->

Health Videos ->

Heartburn

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000068.htm

# Heartburn

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Play health video: //medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200087_eng.mp4

What's this?Play health video with audio description:
//medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200087_eng_ad.mp4

## Overview

Eating spicy foods, such as pizza, may cause a person to feel heartburn.
Although the name may imply the heart, heartburn has nothing to do with the
heart itself. Heartburn is pain felt in the chest by a burning sensation in
the esophagus, which is located close to where the heart is.

Here you can see the pizza passing from the mouth to the esophagus and on to
the stomach. At junction between the stomach and esophagus is the lower
esophageal sphincter. This muscular sphincter acts as a valve that normally
keeps food and stomach acid in the stomach and prevents the stomach's contents
from regurgitating back into the esophagus.

However, certain foods may affect the lower esophageal sphincter, making it
less effective. That's how heartburn begins. The stomach produces hydrochloric
acid to digest food. The stomach has a mucous lining that protects it from
hydrochloric acid, but the esophagus does not.

So, when food and stomach acid regurgitate back into the esophagus, a burning
feeling is felt near the heart. This feeling is known as heartburn. Antacids
may be used to relieve heartburn by making stomach juices less acidic,
therefore reducing the burning feeling felt in the esophagus. If heartburn
becomes frequent or prolonged, medical intervention may be necessary to
correct the problem.

## Review Date 1/12/2020

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Heartburn

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

