Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002407.htm    
                                Description: Vitamin K is a fat-soluble vitamin.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vitamin K

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002407.htm

# Vitamin K

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Vitamin K is a fat-soluble vitamin.

## Function

Vitamin K is known as the clotting vitamin. Without it, blood would not clot.
Some studies suggest that it helps maintain strong bones in the older adults.

## Food Sources

The best way to get the daily requirement of vitamin K is by eating food
sources. Vitamin K is found in the following foods:

      * Green leafy vegetables, such as kale, spinach, turnip greens, collards, Swiss chard, mustard greens, parsley, romaine, and green leaf lettuce
      * Vegetables such as Brussels sprouts, broccoli, cauliflower, and cabbage
      * Fish, liver, meat, eggs, and cereals (contain smaller amounts) 

Vitamin K is also made by the bacteria in the lower intestinal tract.

## Side Effects

Vitamin K deficiency is very rare. It occurs when the body can't properly
absorb the vitamin from the intestinal tract. Vitamin K deficiency can also
occur after long-term treatment with antibiotics.

People with vitamin K deficiency are often more likely to have bruising and
bleeding.

Keep in mind that:

      * If you take certain blood-thinning drugs (anticoagulant/antiplatelet drugs) such as warfarin (Coumadin), you may need to eat less of vitamin K containing foods.
      * You may also need to eat the same amount of vitamin K-containing foods every day.
      * You should know that vitamin K or foods containing vitamin K can affect how some of these drugs work. It is important for you to keep vitamin K levels in your blood constant on a day to day basis.

The most commonly used anticoagulants currently are not affected by intake of
vitamin K. This precaution pertains to warfarin (Coumadin). Ask your health
care provider if you need to monitor your intake of vitamin K containing foods
and how much you can eat.

## Recommendations

The Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) for vitamins reflects how much of each
vitamin most people should get each day.

      * The RDA for vitamins may be used as goals for each person.
      * How much of each vitamin you need depends on your age and gender.
      * Other factors, such as pregnancy, breastfeeding, and illness may increase the amount you need.

The Food and Nutrition Board at the Institute of Medicine Recommended Intakes
for individuals - Adequate Intakes (AIs) for vitamin K:

Infants

      * 0 to 6 months: 2.0 micrograms per day (mcg/day)
      * 7 to 12 months: 2.5 mcg/day

Children

      * 1 to 3 years: 30 mcg/day
      * 4 to 8 years: 55 mcg/day
      * 9 to 13 years: 60 mcg/day

Adolescents and adults

      * Males and females age 14 to 18: 75 mcg/day (including those females who are pregnant and lactating)
      * Males and females age 19 and older: 90 mcg/day for females (including those who are pregnant and lactating) and 120 mcg/day for males

## Alternative Names

Phylloquinone; K1; Menaquinone; K2; Menadione; K3

## Images

      * ![Vitamin K benefit](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18115t.jpg)Vitamin K benefit
      * ![Vitamin K source](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18116t.jpg)Vitamin K source

## References

Mason JB. Vitamins, trace minerals, and other micronutrients. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 218.

Salwen MJ. Vitamins and trace elements. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 26.

## Review Date 2/2/2019

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CNSC, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Vitamin K](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VitaminK_thumb.jpg)Vitamin K _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

