Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001520.htm    
                                Description: Compulsive gambling is being unable to resist impulses to gamble. This can lead to severe money problems, job loss, crime or fraud, and damage to family relationships.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Compulsive gambling

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001520.htm

# Compulsive gambling

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Compulsive gambling is being unable to resist impulses to gamble. This can
lead to severe money problems, job loss, crime or fraud, and damage to family
relationships.

## Causes

Compulsive gambling most often begins in early adolescence in men, and between
ages 20 and 40 in women.

People with compulsive gambling have a hard time resisting or controlling the
impulse to gamble. The brain is reacting to this impulse in the same manner it
reacts to a person addicted to alcohol or drugs. Although it shares features
of obsessive compulsive disorder, compulsive gambling is likely a different
condition.

In people who develop compulsive gambling, occasional gambling leads to a
gambling habit. Stressful situations can worsen gambling problems.

## Symptoms

People with compulsive gambling often feel ashamed and try to avoid letting
other people know about their problem. The American Psychiatric Association
defines pathological gambling as having 5 or more of the following symptoms:

      * Committing crimes to get money to gamble.
      * Feeling restless or irritable when trying to cut back or quit gambling.
      * Gambling to escape problems or feelings of sadness or anxiety.
      * Gambling larger amounts of money to try to make back past losses.
      * Losing a job, relationship, education, or career opportunity due to gambling.
      * Lying about the amount of time or money spent gambling.
      * Making many unsuccessful attempts to cut back or quit gambling.
      * Needing to borrow money due to gambling losses.
      * Needing to gamble larger amounts of money in order to feel excitement.
      * Spending a lot of time thinking about gambling, such as remembering past experiences or ways to get more money with which to gamble.

## Exams and Tests

A psychiatric evaluation and history can be used to diagnose pathological
gambling. Screening tools such as the Gamblers Anonymous 20 Questions
www.gamblersanonymous.org/ga/content/20-questions can help with the diagnosis.

## Treatment

Treatment for people with compulsive gambling begins with recognizing the
problem. Compulsive gamblers often deny they have a problem or need treatment.

Most people with pathological gambling only get treated when other people
pressure them.

Treatment options include:

      * Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT).
      * Self-help support groups, such as Gamblers Anonymous. Gamblers Anonymous www.gamblersanonymous.org/gaÂ is a 12-step program similar to Alcoholics Anonymous. Practices used to treat other types of addiction, such as substance use and alcohol use, can also be helpful in treating pathological gambling.
      * A few studies have been done on medicines for treating compulsive gambling. Early results suggest that antidepressants and opioid antagonists (naltrexone) may help treat the symptoms of pathological gambling. However, it is not yet clear which people will respond to medicines. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Like alcohol or drug addiction, pathological gambling is a long-term disorder
that tends to get worse without treatment. Even with treatment, it's common to
start gambling again (relapse). However, people with pathological gambling can
do very well with the right treatment.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Alcohol and drug use problems
      * Anxiety
      * Depression
      * Financial, social, and legal problems (including bankruptcy, divorce, job loss, time in prison)
      * Heart attacks (from the stress and excitement of gambling)
      * Suicide attempts 

Getting the right treatment can help prevent many of these problems.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider or mental health professional if you believe
you have symptoms of pathological gambling.

## Prevention

Exposure to gambling may increase the risk of developing pathological
gambling. Limiting exposure may be helpful for people who are at risk.
Intervention at the earliest signs of pathological gambling may prevent the
disorder from getting worse.

## Alternative Names

Gambling - compulsive; Pathological gambling; Addictive gambling

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Non-substance-related disorders. In:
_American Psychiatric Association. Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental
Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing.
2013:585-589.

Weissman AR, Gould CM, Sanders KM. Impulse-control disorders. In: Stern TA,
Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General Hospital
Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 23.

## Review Date 3/26/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Compulsive
Gambling](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CompulsiveGambling_thumb.jpg)Compulsive
Gambling _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

