Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000011.htm    
                                Description: CPR stands for cardiopulmonary resuscitation. It is a lifesaving procedure that is done when a baby    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

CPR - infant

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000011.htm

# CPR - infant

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

CPR stands for cardiopulmonary resuscitation. It is a lifesaving procedure
that is done when a baby's breathing or heartbeat has stopped. This may happen
after drowning, suffocation, choking, or other injuries. CPR involves:

      * Rescue breathing, which provides oxygen to the lungs.
      * Chest compressions, which keep the blood flowing.

Permanent brain damage or death can occur within minutes if a baby's blood
flow stops. Therefore, you must continue these procedures until the infant's
heartbeat and breathing return, or trained medical help arrives.

## Considerations

CPR is best done by someone trained in an accredited CPR course.Â The newest
techniques emphasize compression over rescue breathing and airway, reversing
long-standing practice.

All parents and those who take care of children should learn infant and child
CPR. See www.heart.org for classes near you. The procedures described here are
NOT a substitute for CPR training.

Time is very important when dealing with an unconscious baby who is not
breathing. Permanent brain damage begins after only 4 minutes without oxygen,
and death can occur as soon as 4 to 6 minutes later.

Machines called automated external defibrillators (AEDs) can be found in many
public places, and are available for home use. These machines have pads or
paddles to place on the chest during a life-threatening emergency. They
automatically check the heart rhythm and give a sudden shock if, and only if,
that shock is needed to get the heart back into the right rhythm. Make sure
the AED can be used on infants. When using an AED, follow the instructions
exactly.

## Causes

There are many things that cause an infant's heartbeat and breathing to stop.
Some reasons you may need to do CPR on an infant include:

      * Choking
      * Drowning
      * Electrical shock
      * Excessive bleeding
      * Head trauma or other serious injury
      * Lung disease
      * Poisoning
      * Suffocation

## Symptoms

CPR should be done if the infant has the following symptoms:

      * No breathing
      * No pulse
      * Unconsciousness

## First Aid

**1.** **Check for alertness**. Tap the bottom of the infant's foot. See if
the infant moves or makes a noise. Shout, "Are you OK"? Never shake an infant.

 **2\. If there is no response, shout for help**. Tell someone to call 911 and
get an AED, if available. Do not leave the infant yourself to call 911 until
you have done CPR for about 2 minutes.

 **3\. Carefully place the infant on its back**. If there is a chance the
infant has a spinal injury, two people should move the infant to prevent the
head and neck from twisting.

 **4\. Perform chest compressions** :

      * PlaceÂ 2 fingers on the breastbone, just below the nipples. Make sure not to press at the very end of the breastbone.
      * Keep your other hand on the infant's forehead, keeping the head tilted back.
      * Press down on the infant's chest so that it compresses about one thirdÂ toÂ one halfÂ the depth of the chest.
      * Give 30 chest compressions. Each time, let the chest rise completely. These compressions should be FAST and hard with no pausing. Count the 30 compressions quickly: ("1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16,17,18,19,20,21,22,23,24,25,26,27,28,29,30, off.")

 **5\. Open the airway**. Lift up the chin with one hand. At the same time,
tilt the head by pushing down on the forehead with the other hand.

 **6\. Look, listen, and feel for breathing**. Place your ear close to the
infant's mouth and nose. Watch for chest movement. Feel for breath on your
cheek.

 **7\. If the infant is not breathing** :

      * Cover the infant's mouth and nose tightly with your mouth.
      * Or, cover just the nose. Hold the mouth shut.
      * Keep the chin lifted and head tilted.
      * GiveÂ 2 rescue breaths. Each breath should take about a second and make the chest rise.

 **8.** After about 2 minutes of CPR, if the infant still does not have normal
breathing, coughing, or any movement, leave the infant if you are alone and
**call 911**.Â If an AED for children is available, use it now.

 **9.** Repeat rescue breathing and chest compressions until the infant
recovers or help arrives.

Keep rechecking for breathing until help arrives.

## DO NOT

Avoid making the situation worse by following these tips:

      * DO NOT lift the infant's chin while tilting the head back to move the tongue away from the windpipe. If you think the baby has a spinal injury, pull the jaw forward without moving the head or neck. DO NOT let the mouth close.
      * If the infant has normal breathing, coughing, or movement, DO NOT begin chest compressions. Doing so may cause the heart to stop beating. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Steps to take if you are with another person or if you are alone with an
infant:

      *  **If you have help** , tell one person to call 911 while another person begins CPR.
      *  **If you are alone** , shout loudly for help and begin CPR. After doing CPR for about 2 minutes, if no help has arrived, call 911. You may carry the infant with you to the nearest phone (unless you suspect a spinal injury).

## Prevention

Most children need CPR because of a preventable accident. The following tips
may help prevent some accidents in children:

      * Never underestimate what an infant can do. Assume the baby can move more than you think.
      * Never leave an infant unattended on a bed, table, or other surface from which the infant could roll off.
      * Always use safety straps on high chairs and strollers. Never leave an infant in a mesh playpen with one side down. Follow the guidelines for using infant car seats.
      * Teach your baby the meaning of "don't touch". The earliest safety lesson is "No!"
      * Choose age-appropriate toys. Do not give infants toys that are heavy or fragile. Inspect toys for small or loose parts, sharp edges, points, loose batteries, and other hazards.
      * Create a safe environment. Watch children carefully, particularly around water and near furniture.
      * Keep toxic chemicals and cleaning solutions safely stored in childproof cabinets in their original containers with labels attached.
      * To reduce the risk of choking accidents, make sure infants and small children cannot reach buttons, watch batteries, popcorn, coins, grapes, or nuts.
      * Sit with an infant while they eat. Do not allow an infant to crawl around while eating or drinking from a bottle.
      * Never tie pacifiers, jewelry, chains, bracelets, or anything else around an infant's neck or wrists.

## Alternative Names

Rescue breathing and chest compressions - infant; Resuscitation -
cardiopulmonary - infant; Cardiopulmonary resuscitation - infant

## Images

      * ![CPR - infant - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19668t.jpg)CPR - infant - series

## References

American Heart Association. Highlights of the 2015 American Heart Association
guidelines update for CPR and ECC. eccguidelines.heart.org/wp-
content/uploads/2015/10/2015-AHA-Guidelines-Highlights-English.pdf. Accessed
March 14, 2019.

Duff JP, Topjian A, Berg MD, et al. 2018 American Heart Association focused
update on pediatric advanced life support: an update to the American Heart
Association guidelines for cardiopulmonary resuscitation and emergency
cardiovascular care. _Circulation_. 2018;138(23):e731-e739. PMID: 30571264
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30571264.

Easter JS, Scott HF. Pediatric resuscitation. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 163.

Kearney RD, Lo MD. Neonatal resuscitation. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 164.

Rose E. Pediatric respiratory emergencies: upper airway obstruction and
infections. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's
Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 167.

## Review Date 1/12/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update 08/05/2019.

![CPR](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CPR_thumb.jpg)CPR _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

