Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000010.htm    
                                Description: CPR stands for cardiopulmonary resuscitation. It is an emergency life-saving procedure that is done when someone    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

CPR

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000010.htm

# CPR

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

CPR stands for cardiopulmonary resuscitation. It is an emergency life-saving
procedure that is done when someone's breathing or heartbeat has stopped. This
may happen after an electric shock, heart attack, or drowning.

CPR combines rescue breathing and chest compressions.

      * Rescue breathing provides oxygen to the person's lungs.
      * Chest compressions keep oxygen-rich blood flowing until the heartbeat and breathing can be restored.

Permanent brain damage or death can occur within minutes if blood flow stops.
Therefore, it is very important that blood flow and breathing be continued
until trained medical help arrives. Emergency (911) operators can guide you
through the process.

CPR techniques vary slightly depending on the age or size of the person,
including different techniques for adults and children who have reached
puberty, children 1 year old until the onset of puberty, and infants (babies
less than 1 yr of age).

## Alternative Names

Cardiopulmonary resuscitation

## References

American Heart Association. Highlights of the 2015 American Heart Association
guidelines update for CPR and ECC. eccguidelines.heart.org/wp-
content/uploads/2015/10/2015-AHA-Guidelines-Highlights-English.pdf. Accessed
March 14, 2019.

Duff JP, Topjian A, Berg MD, et al. 2018 American Heart Association focused
update on pediatric advanced life support: an update to the American Heart
Association guidelines for cardiopulmonary resuscitation and emergency
cardiovascular care. _Circulation_. 2018;138(23):e731-e739. PMID: 30571264
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30571264.

Morley PT. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (including defibrillation). In:
Bersten AD, Handy JM, eds. _Oh's Intensive Care Manual_. 8th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 21.

Panchal AR, Berg KM, Kudenchuk PJ, et al. 2018 American Heart Association
focused update on advanced cardiovascular life support use of antiarrhythmic
drugs during and immediately after cardiac arrest: an update to the American
Heart Association guidelines for cardiopulmonary resuscitation and emergency
cardiovascular care. _Circulation_. 2018;138(23):e740-e749. PMID: 30571262
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30571262.

## Review Date 1/12/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![CPR](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CPR_thumb.jpg)CPR _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

