Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000013.htm    
                                Description: CPR stands for cardiopulmonary resuscitation. ItÂ is a lifesaving procedure that is done when someone    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

CPR - adult and child after onset of puberty

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000013.htm

# CPR - adult and child after onset of puberty

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

CPR stands for cardiopulmonary resuscitation. ItÂ is a lifesaving procedure
that is done when someone's breathing or heartbeat has stopped. This may
happen after anÂ electric shock, drowning, or heart attack. CPR involves:

      * Rescue breathing, which provides oxygen to a person's lungs.
      * Chest compressions, which keep the person's blood circulating.

Permanent brain damage or death can occur within minutes if a person's blood
flow stops. Therefore, you must continue CPR until the person's heartbeat and
breathing return, or trained medical help arrives.

 **For the purposes of CPR, puberty is defined as breast development in
females and the presence of axillary (armpit) hair in males.**

## Considerations

CPR is best done by someone trained in an accredited CPR course. The
procedures described here are NOT a substitute for CPR training. The newest
techniques emphasize compression over rescue breathing and airway management,
reversing a long-standing practice. See www.heart.org for classes near you.

Time is very important when an unconscious person is not breathing. Permanent
brain damage begins after only 4 minutes without oxygen, and death can occur
as soon as 4 to 6 minutes later.

Machines called automated external defibrillators (AEDs) can be found in many
public places, and are available for home use. These machines have pads or
paddles to place on the chest during a life-threatening emergency. They
automatically check the heart rhythm and give a sudden shock if, and only if,
that shock is needed to get the heart back into the right rhythm. When using
an AED, follow the instructions exactly.

## Causes

In adults, major reasons that heartbeat and breathing stop include:

      * Drug overdose
      * Excessive bleeding
      * Heart problem (heart attack or abnormal heart rhythm, fluid in the lungs or compressing the heart)
      * Infection in the bloodstream (sepsis)
      * Injuries and accidents
      * Drowning
      * Stroke
There are many things that cause an older child or teen's heartbeat and
breathing to stop, including:

      * Choking
      * Drowning
      * Electrical shock
      * Excessive bleeding
      * Head trauma or other serious injury
      * Lung disease
      * Poisoning
      * Suffocation

## Symptoms

CPR should be done if a person has any of the following symptoms:

      * No breathing or difficulty breathing (gasping)
      * No pulse
      * Unconsciousness

## First Aid

1\. **Check for responsiveness**. Shake or tap the person gently. See if the
person moves or makes a noise. Shout, "Are you OK?"

2\. **Call 911 if there is no response**. Shout for help and send someone to
call 911. If you are alone, call 911 and retrieve an AED (if available), even
if you have to leave the person.

3\. **Carefully place the person on their back.** If there is a chance the
person has a spinal injury, two people should move the person to prevent the
head and neck from twisting.

4\. **Perform chest compressions** :

      * Place the heel of one hand on the breastbone -- right between the nipples.
      * Place the heel of your other hand on top of the first hand.
      * Position your body directly over your hands.
      * Give 30 chest compressions. These compressions should be fast and hard. Press down about 2 inches (5 centimeters) into the chest. Each time, let the chest rise completely. Count the 30 compressions quickly: "1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16,17,18,19,20,21,22,23,24,25,26,27,28,29,30, off".

5\. **Open the airway**. Lift up the chin with 2 fingers. At the same time,
tilt the head by pushing down on the forehead with the other hand.

6\. **Look, listen, and feel for breathing**. Place your ear close to the
person's mouth and nose. Watch for chest movement. Feel for breath on your
cheek.

7. **If the person is not breathing or has trouble breathing** :

      * Cover their mouth tightly with your mouth.
      * Pinch the nose closed.
      * Keep the chin lifted and head tilted.
      * Give 2 rescue breaths. Each breath should take about a second and make the chest rise.

8\. Repeat chest compressions and rescue breathing until the person recovers
or help arrives. If an AED for adults is available, use it as soon as
possible.

If the person starts breathing again, place them in the recovery position.
Keep checking for breathing until help arrives.

## DO NOT

      * If the person has normal breathing, coughing, or movement, DO NOT begin chest compressions. Doing so may cause the heart to stop beating. 
      * Unless you are a health professional,Â DO NOT check for a pulse. Only a health care professional is properly trained to check for a pulse. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

      * **If you have help** , tell one person to call 911 while another person begins CPR.
      *  **If you are alone** , as soon as you determine that the person is unresponsive, call 911 immediately. Then begin CPR.

## Prevention

In adults, to avoid injuries and heart problems that can lead to the heart
stopping beating:

      * Eliminate or reduce risk factors that contribute to heart disease, such as cigarette smoking, high cholesterol, high blood pressure, obesity, and stress.
      * Get plenty of exercise.
      * See your health care provider regularly.
      * Always use seat belts and drive safely.
      * Avoid using illegal drugs.
Most children need CPR because of a preventable accident. The following tips
may help prevent some accidents in children:

      * Teach your children the basic principles of family safety.
      * Teach your child to swim.
      * Teach your child to watch for cars and ride bikes safely.
      * Teach your child firearm safety. If you have guns in your home, keep them locked in an isolated cabinet.

## Alternative Names

Cardiopulmonary resuscitation - adult; Rescue breathing and chest compressions
- adult; Resuscitation - cardiopulmonary - adult;Â Cardiopulmonary
resuscitation - child 9 years and older; Rescue breathing and chest
compressions - child 9 years and older; Resuscitation - cardiopulmonary -
child 9 years and older

## Images

      * ![CPR - adult - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1084t.jpg)CPR - adult - series

## References

American Heart Association. Highlights of the 2015 American Heart Association
guidelines update for CPR and ECC. eccguidelines.heart.org/wp-
content/uploads/2015/10/2015-AHA-Guidelines-Highlights-English.pdf. Accessed
March 14, 2019.

Duff JP, Topjian A, Berg MD, et al. 2018 American Heart Association focused
update on pediatric advanced life support: an update to the American Heart
Association guidelines for cardiopulmonary resuscitation and emergency
cardiovascular care. _Circulation_. 2018;138(23):e731-e739. PMID: 30571264
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30571264.

Morley PT. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (including defibrillation). In:
Bersten AD, Handy JM, eds. _Oh's Intensive Care Manual_. 8th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 21.

Panchal AR, Berg KM, Kudenchuk PJ, et al. 2018 American Heart Association
focused update on advanced cardiovascular life support use of antiarrhythmic
drugs during and immediately after cardiac arrest: an update to the American
Heart Association guidelines for cardiopulmonary resuscitation and emergency
cardiovascular care. _Circulation_. 2018;138(23):e740-e749. PMID: 30571262
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30571262.

## Review Date 1/12/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update on 01-31-2020.

![CPR](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CPR_thumb.jpg)CPR _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

