Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000012.htm    
                                Description: CPR stands for cardiopulmonary resuscitation. It is a lifesaving procedure that is done when a child    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

CPR - young child (age 1 year to onset of puberty)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000012.htm

# CPR - young child (age 1 year to onset of puberty)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

CPR stands for cardiopulmonary resuscitation. It is a lifesaving procedure
that is done when a child's breathing or heartbeat has stopped. This may
happen after drowning, suffocation, choking, or an injury. CPR involves:

      * Rescue breathing, which provides oxygen to a child's lungs
      * Chest compressions, which keep the child's blood circulating

Permanent brain damage or death can occur within minutes if a child's blood
flow stops. Therefore, you must continue CPR until the child's heartbeat and
breathing return, or trained medical help arrives.

 **For the purposes of CPR, puberty is defined as breast development in
females and the presence of axillary (armpit) hair in males.**

## Considerations

CPR is best done by someone trained in an accredited CPR course. The newest
techniques emphasize compression over rescue breathing and airway management,
reversing a long-standing practice.

All parents and those who take care of children should learn infant and child
CPR if they have not already. See www.heart.org for classes near you.

Time is very important when dealing with an unconscious child who is not
breathing. Permanent brain damage begins after only 4 minutes without oxygen,
and death can occur as soon as 4 to 6 minutes later.

Machines called automated external defibrillators (AEDs) can be found in many
public places, and are available for home use. These machines have pads or
paddles to place on the chest during a life-threatening emergency. They use
computers to automatically check the heart rhythm and give a sudden shock if,
and only if, that shock is needed to get the heart back into the right rhythm.
When using an AED, follow the instructions exactly.

The procedures described in this article are NOT a substitute for CPR
training.

## Causes

There are many things that cause a child's heartbeat and breathing to stop.
Some reasons you may need to do CPR on a child include:

      * Choking
      * Drowning
      * Electrical shock
      * Excessive bleeding
      * Head trauma or other serious injury
      * Lung disease
      * Poisoning
      * Suffocation

## Symptoms

CPR should be done if the child has any of the following symptoms:

      * No breathing
      * No pulse
      * Unconsciousness

## First Aid

1\. Check for alertness. Tap the child gently. See if the child moves or makes
a noise. Shout, "Are you OK?"

2\. If there is no response, shout for help. Tell someone to call 911 and get
an AED if available. Do not leave the child alone until you have done CPR for
about 2 minutes.

3\. Carefully place the child on its back. If there is a chance the child has
a spinal injury, two people should move the child to prevent the head and neck
from twisting.

4\. Perform chest compressions:

      * Place the heel of one hand on the breastbone -- just below the nipples. Make sure your heel is not at the very end of the breastbone.
      * Keep your other hand on the child's forehead, keeping the head tilted back.
      * Press down on the child's chest so that it compresses about one third to one half the depth of the chest.
      * Give 30 chest compressions. Each time, let the chest rise completely. These compressions should be fast and hard with no pausing. Count the 30 compressions quickly: "1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16,17,18,19,20,21,22,23,24,25,26,27,28,29,30, off''.

5\. Open the airway. Lift up the chin with one hand. At the same time, tilt
the head by pushing down on the forehead with the other hand.

6\. Look, listen, and feel for breathing. Place your ear close to the child's
mouth and nose. Watch for chest movement. Feel for breath on your cheek.

7\. If the child is not breathing:

      * Cover the child's mouth tightly with your mouth.
      * Pinch the nose closed.
      * Keep the chin lifted and head tilted.
      * Give two rescue breaths. Each breath should take about a second and make the chest rise.

8\. After about 2 minutes of CPR, if the child still does not have normal
breathing, coughing, or any movement, leave the child if you are alone and
call 911. If an AED for children is available, use it now.

9\. Repeat rescue breathing and chest compressions until the child recovers or
help arrives.

If the child starts breathing again, place them in the recovery position. Keep
checking for breathing until help arrives.

## DO NOT

      * If you think the child has a spinal injury, pull the jaw forward without moving the head or neck. DO NOT let the mouth close.
      * If the child has signs of normal breathing, coughing, or movement,Â DO NOT begin chest compressions. Doing so may cause the heart to stop beating.
      * Unless you are a health professional,Â DO NOT check for a pulse. Only a health care professional is properly trained to check for a pulse.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

      * **If you have help** , tell one person to call 911 while another person begins CPR.
      *  **If you are alone** , shout loudly for help and begin CPR. After doing CPR for about 2 minutes, if no help has arrived, call 911. You may carry the child with you to the nearest phone (unless you suspect a spinal injury).

## Prevention

Most children need CPR because of a preventable accident. The following tips
may help prevent an accident:

      * Teach your children the basic principles of family safety.
      * Teach your child to swim.
      * Teach your child to watch for cars and how to ride a bike safely.
      * Make sure you follow the guidelines for using children's car seats.
      * Teach your child firearm safety. If you have guns in your home, keep them locked in an isolated cabinet.
      * Teach your child the meaning of "don't touch." 

Never underestimate what a child can do. Assume the child can move and pick up
things more than you think they can. Think about what the child may get into
next, and be ready. Climbing and squirming are to be expected. Always use
safety straps on high chairs and strollers.

Choose age-appropriate toys. Do not give small children toys that are heavy or
fragile. Inspect toys for small or loose parts, sharp edges, points, loose
batteries, and other hazards. Keep toxic chemicals and cleaning solutions
safely stored in childproof cabinets.

Create a safe environment and supervise children carefully, particularly
around water and near furniture. Electrical outlets, stove tops, and medicine
cabinets can be dangerous for small children.

## Alternative Names

Rescue breathing and chest compressions - child; Resuscitation -
cardiopulmonary - child; Cardiopulmonary resuscitation - child

## Images

      * ![Check for breathing](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19642t.jpg)CPR - child 1 to 8 years old - series

## References

American Heart Association. Highlights of the 2015 American Heart Association
guidelines update for CPR and ECC. eccguidelines.heart.org/wp-
content/uploads/2015/10/2015-AHA-Guidelines-Highlights-English.pdf. Accessed
March 14, 2019.

Duff JP, Topjian A, Berg MD, et al. 2018 American Heart Association focused
update on pediatric advanced life support: an update to the American Heart
Association guidelines for cardiopulmonary resuscitation and emergency
cardiovascular care. _Circulation_. 2018;138(23):e731-e739. PMID: 30571264
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30571264.

Easter JS, Scott HF. Pediatric resuscitation. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 163.

Rose E. Pediatric respiratory emergencies: upper airway obstruction and
infections. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's
Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 167.

## Review Date 1/12/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update 08/05/2019.

![CPR](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CPR_thumb.jpg)CPR _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

