Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002465.htm    
                                Description: A vegetarian diet does not include any meat, poultry, or seafood. It is a meal plan made up of foods that come mostly from plants. These include:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vegetarian diet

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002465.htm

# Vegetarian diet

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A vegetarian diet does not include any meat, poultry, or seafood. It is a meal
plan made up of foods that come mostly from plants. These include:

      * Vegetables
      * Fruits
      * Whole grains
      * Legumes
      * Seeds
      * Nuts
      * May include eggs and/or milk if ovo-lacto vegetarianÂ 

A vegetarian diet contains no animal proteins. A semi-vegetarian diet is a
meal plan that contains little animal protein, but mostly plant-based foods.
Vegetarians DO NOT eat:

      * Fowl
      * Seafood
      * Beef
      * Pork
      * Lamb
      * Other animal meats, such as bison, or exotic meats like ostrich or alligator

Vegetarians also do not eat products containing gelatin or rennin (an enzyme
found in calf's stomachs that is used to produce many cheeses).

Here are the different types of vegetarian diets:

      * Vegan: Includes only plant-based foods. No animal proteins or animal by-products such as eggs, milk, or honey.
      * Lacto-vegetarian: Includes plant foods plus some or all dairy products.
      * Lacto-ovo vegetarian: Includes plant foods, dairy products, and eggs.
      * Semi- or partial vegetarian: Includes plant foods and may include chicken or fish, dairy products, and eggs. It does not include red meat.
      * Pescatarian: Includes plant foods and seafood.

## Function

BENEFITS OF A VEGETARIAN DIET

A well-planned vegetarian diet can meet your nutrition needs. Reducing the
amount of meat in your diet may improve your health. Eating a vegetarian diet
may help you:

      * Reduce your chance of obesity
      * Reduce your risk for heart disease
      * Lower your blood pressure
      * Lower your risk for type 2 diabetes

Compared to non-vegetarians, vegetarians usually eat:

      * Fewer calories from fat (especially saturated fat)
      * Fewer overall calories
      * More fiber, potassium, and vitamin C

## Food Sources

PLAN TO GET PLENTY OF NUTRIENTS

If you follow a vegetarian diet, you need to make sure you get proper
nutrition. You need to eat a variety of foods to get all the calories and
nutrients needed for growth and good health. Certain groups of people may need
to plan carefully, such as:

      * Young children and teens
      * Pregnant or breastfeeding women
      * Older adults
      * People with cancer and some chronic illnesses 

Vegetarian diets that include some dairy products and eggs have all the
nutrition you need. But the more restrictive your diet, the harder it can be
to get certain nutrients.

If you choose to avoid most or all animal foods, pay close attention to make
sure you get all of the following nutrients.

 **Vitamin B12** : You need this vitamin to help prevent anemia. Eggs and
dairy foods have the most B12, so vegans may have a hard time getting enough.
You can get B12 from these foods:

      * Eggs
      * Milk, yogurt, low-fat cheese, cottage cheese, and other dairy products
      * Foods that have B12 added to them (fortified), such as cereal and soy products
      * Nutritional yeast
      * Seafood such as clams, salmon, and tuna (this only applies to pescetarians and semi-vegetarians) 

**Vitamin D** : You need this vitamin for bone health. You can get vitamin D
from sun exposure. But you should limit sun exposure due to skin cancer
concerns. Depending on where you live and other factors, you most likely will
not be able to get enough from sun exposure. You can get vitamin D from these
foods:

      * Fatty fish, such as sardines, salmon, and mackerel (this only applies to pescetarians and semi-vegetarians)
      * Egg yolks
      * Foods that are fortified with vitamin D, such as orange juice, cow's milk, soy milk, rice milk, and cereals 

**Zinc** : Zinc is important for the immune system and cell growth, especially
in teens. Your body does not absorb zinc from plant foods as well as from meat
and other animal foods. You can get zinc from these foods:

      * Beans and legumes, such as chickpeas, kidney beans, and baked beans
      * Nuts and seeds, such as almonds, peanuts, and cashews
      * Seafood, such as oysters, crab, and lobster (this only applies to pescetarians and semi-vegetarians)
      * Yogurt and cheese
      * Foods fortified with zinc, such as milk and cereals 

**Iron** : You need iron for your red blood cells. Your body does not absorb
the type of iron found from plant foods as well as from the type found in meat
and other animal foods. You can get iron from these foods:

      * Beans and legumes, such as white beans, lentils, and kidney beans
      * Green vegetables, such as broccoli, spinach, kale, and collard greens
      * Dried fruit, such as prunes, raisins, and apricots
      * Whole grains
      * Foods fortified with iron, such as cereals and breads 

Eating foods that are high in vitamin C at the same meal as iron-rich foods
increase iron absorption. Vitamin C helps the body absorb iron. Foods high in
vitamin C include, tomatoes, potatoes, citrus fruits, bell peppers, and
strawberries.

 **Calcium** : Foods high in calcium help keep bones strong. Dairy products
have the highest amount of calcium. If you do not eat dairy, it can be hard to
get enough. Oxalates, a substance found in plant foods inhibits calcium
absorption. Foods that are high in both oxalates and calcium are not good
sources of calcium. Examples include, spinach, Swiss chard, and beet greens.

You can get calcium from these foods:

      * Sardines and canned salmon with bones (this only applies to pescetarians and semi-vegetarians)
      * Dairy products, such as milk, yogurt, cottage cheese, and cheese
      * Green vegetables, such as collard greens, kale, bok choy, and broccoli
      * Oranges and figs
      * Tofu
      * Almonds, Brazil nuts, sunflower seeds, tahini, and white beans
      * Foods fortified with calcium, such as cereal, orange juice, and soy, almond and rice milk 

**Omega-3 fatty acids** : Omega-3s are important for your heart and brain
health. You can get omega-3s from these foods:

      * Fatty fish, such as halibut, mackerel, salmon, herring, and sardines (this only applies to pescetarians and semi-vegetarians)
      * Nuts and seeds, such as walnuts, pumpkin seeds, ground flaxseed, canola oil, chia seeds
      * Soybeans and soy oil
      * Foods fortified with omega-3s, such as bread, eggs, juice, and milk 

**Protein** : It is easy to get plenty of protein even if you do not eat any
animal products. If you eat fish and/or eggs and dairy getting enough protein
will not be a concern for most people. You can also get protein from these
foods:

      * Soy foods, such as soy nuts, soy milk, tempeh and tofu.
      * Seitan (made of gluten).
      * Vegetarian meat substitutes. Just watch for products that are high in sodium.
      * Legumes, beans, and lentils.
      * Nuts, nut butters, seeds, and whole grains.
      * Dairy products such as milk, yogurt, and cottage cheese. 

You do not need to combine these foods at the same meal to get enough protein.

Teens and pregnant women should work with a registered dietitian to make sure
they are getting enough protein and other key nutrients.

## Recommendations

DIETARY TIPS FOR VEGETARIANS

When following a vegetarian diet, keep in mind the following:

      * Eat different kinds of foods, including vegetables, fruits, beans, nuts, seeds, whole grains, and low-fat or fat-free dairy and eggs if your diet includes these.
      * Choose fortified foods, such as cereals, breads, soy or almond milk, and fruits juices to get a full range of nutrients.
      * Limit foods that are high in sugar, salt (sodium), and fat.
      * Include a protein source with all meals.
      * If needed, take supplements if your diet lacks certain vitamins and minerals.
      * Learn to read the Nutrition Facts Label on food packages. The label tells you the ingredients and nutrition contents of the food product.
      * If you follow a more restrictive diet, you may want to work with a dietitian to make sure you are getting enough nutrients.

## Alternative Names

Lacto-ovovegetarian; Semi-vegetarian; Partial vegetarian; Vegan; Lacto-
vegetarian

## References

Melina V, Craig W, Levin S. Position of the Academy of Nutrition and
Dietetics: vegetarian diets. _J Acad Nutr Diet_. 2016;116(12):1970-1980. PMID:
27886704 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27886704.

National Institutes of Health website. Office of dietary supplements. Dietary
supplement fact sheets. ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/list-all. Accessed October
8, 2018.

Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion website. 2015-2020 Dietary
guidelines for Americans.
health.gov/dietaryguidelines/2015/resources/2015-2020_Dietary_Guidelines.pdf.
Accessed October 8, 2018.

Parks EP, Shaikhkhalil A, Groleau V, Wendel D, Stallings VA. Feeding healthy
infants, children, and adolescents. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 45.

## Review Date 10/8/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Vegetarian
Diet](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VegetarianDiet_thumb.jpg)Vegetarian Diet
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

