Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000057.htm    
                                Description: Frostbite is damage to the skin and underlying tissues caused by extreme cold. Frostbite is the most common freezing injury.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Frostbite

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000057.htm

# Frostbite

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Frostbite is damage to the skin and underlying tissues caused by extreme cold.
Frostbite is the most common freezing injury.

## Causes

Frostbite occurs when the skin and body tissues are exposed to cold
temperature for a long period of time.

You are more likely to develop frostbite if you:

      * Take medicines called beta-blockers
      * Have poor blood supply to the legs
      * Smoke
      * Have diabetes
      * Have Raynaud phenomenon

## Symptoms

Symptoms of frostbite may include:

      * Pins and needles feeling, followed by numbness
      * Hard, pale, and cold skin that has been exposed to the cold for too long
      * Aching, throbbing or lack of feeling in the affected area
      * Red and extremely painful skin and muscle as the area thaws

Very severe frostbite may cause:

      * Blisters
      * Gangrene (blackened, dead tissue)
      * Damage to tendons, muscles, nerves, and bone

Frostbite may affect any part of the body. The hands, feet, nose, and ears are
the places most prone to the problem.

      * If the frostbite did not affect your blood vessels, a complete recovery is possible.
      * If the frostbite affected the blood vessels, the damage is permanent. Gangrene may occur. This may require removal of the affected body part (amputation). 

## First Aid

A person with frostbite on the arms or legs may also have hypothermia (lowered
body temperature). Check for hypothermia and treat those symptoms first.

Take the following steps if you think someone might have frostbite:

      1. Shelter the person from the cold and move them to a warmer place. Remove any tight jewelry and wet clothes. Look for signs of hypothermia (lowered body temperature) and treat that condition first.
      2. If you can get quick medical help, it is best to wrap the damaged areas in sterile dressings. Remember to separate affected fingers and toes. Transport the person to an emergency department for further care.
      3. If medical help is not nearby, you may give the person rewarming first aid. Soak the affected areas in warm (never hot) water -- for 20 to 30 minutes. For ears, nose, and cheeks, apply a warm cloth repeatedly. The recommended water temperature is 104Â°F to 108Â°F (40Â°C to 42.2Â°C). Keep circulating the water to aid the warming process. Severe burning pain, swelling, and color changes may occur during warming. Warming is complete when the skin is soft and feeling returns.
      4. Apply dry, sterile dressings to the frostbitten areas. Put dressings between frostbitten fingers or toes to keep them separated.
      5. Move thawed areas as little as possible.
      6. Refreezing of thawed extremities can cause more severe damage. Prevent refreezing by wrapping the thawed areas and keeping the person warm. If protection from refreezing cannot be guaranteed, it may be better to delay the initial rewarming process until a warm, safe location is reached.
      7. If the frostbite is severe, give the person warm drinks to replace lost fluids. 

## DO NOT

In case of frostbite, DO NOT:

      * Thaw out a frostbitten area if it cannot be kept thawed. Refreezing may make tissue damage even worse.
      * Use direct dry heat (such as a radiator, campfire, heating pad, or hair dryer) to thaw the frostbitten areas. Direct heat can burn the tissues that are already damaged.
      * Rub or massage the affected area.
      * Disturb blisters on frostbitten skin.
      * Smoke or drink alcoholic beverages during recovery as both can interfere with blood circulation.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

      * You had severe frostbite
      * Normal feeling and color do not return promptly after home treatment for mild frostbite
      * Frostbite has occurred recently and new symptoms develop, such as fever, general ill-feeling, skin discoloration, or drainage from the affected body part 

## Prevention

Be aware of factors that can contribute to frostbite. These include extreme:

      * Wet clothes
      * High winds
      * Poor blood circulation. Poor circulation can be caused by tight clothing or boots, cramped positions, fatigue, certain medicines, smoking, alcohol use, or diseases that affect the blood vessels, such as diabetes. 

Wear clothing that protects you well against the cold. Protect exposed areas.
In cold weather, wear mittens (not gloves); wind-proof, water-resistant,
layered clothing; 2 pairs of socks; and a hat or scarf that covers the ears
(to avoid heat loss through the scalp).

If you expect to be exposed to the cold for a long period of time, do not
drink alcohol or smoke. Make sure to get enough food and rest.

If caught in a severe snowstorm, find shelter early or increase physical
activity to maintain body warmth.

## Alternative Names

Cold exposure - arms or legs

## Images

      * ![First aid kit](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17065t.jpg)First aid kit
      * ![Frostbite - hands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/3072t.jpg)Frostbite - hands
      * ![Frostbite](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9339t.jpg)Frostbite

## References

Sawka MN, O'Connor FG. Disorders due to heat and cold. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 109.

Zafren K, Danzl DF. Accidental hypothermia. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 132.

Zafren K, Danzl DF. Frostbite and nonfreezing cold injuries. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and
Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 131.

## Review Date 10/16/2017

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Frostbite](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Frostbite2_thumb.jpg)Frostbite
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

