Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007447.htm    
                                Description: Digestive diseases are disorders of the digestive tract, which is sometimes called the gastrointestinal (GI) tract.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Digestive diseases

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007447.htm

# Digestive diseases

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Digestive diseases are disorders of the digestive tract, which is sometimes
called the gastrointestinal (GI) tract.

In digestion, food and drink are broken down into small parts (called
nutrients) that the body can absorb and use as energy and building blocks for
cells.

The digestive tract is made up of the esophagus (food tube), stomach, large
and small intestines, liver, pancreas, and the gallbladder.

## Information

The first sign of problems in the digestive tract often includes one or more
of the following symptoms:

      * Bleeding
      * Bloating
      * Constipation
      * Diarrhea
      * Heartburn
      * Incontinence
      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Pain in the belly
      * Swallowing problems
      * Weight gain or loss

A digestive disease is any health problem that occurs in the digestive tract.
Conditions may range from mild to serious. Some common problems include
cancer, irritable bowel syndrome, and lactose intolerance.

Other digestive diseases include:

      * Gallstones, cholecystitis, and cholangitis
      * Rectal problems, such as anal fissure, hemorrhoids, proctitis, and rectal prolapse
      * Esophagus problems, such as stricture (narrowing) and achalasiaÂ and esophagitis
      * Stomach problems, including gastritis, gastric ulcers usually caused by _Helicobacter pylori_ infection and cancer  

      * Liver problems, such as hepatitis B or hepatitis C, cirrhosis, liver failure, and autoimmune and alcoholic hepatitis
      * Pancreatitis and pancreatic pseudocyst
      * Intestinal problems, such as polyps and cancer, infections, celiac disease, Crohn disease, ulcerative colitis, diverticulitis, malabsorption, short bowel syndrome, and intestinal ischemia
      * Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), peptic ulcer disease, and hiatal hernia

Tests for digestive problems can include colonoscopy, upper GI endoscopy,
capsule endoscopy, endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP), and
endoscopic ultrasound.

Many surgical procedures are performed on the digestive tract. These include
procedures done using endoscopy, laparoscopy, and open surgery. Organ
transplants can be performed on the liver, pancreas, and small intestine.

Many health care providers can help diagnose and treat digestive problems. A
gastroenterologist is a physician specialist who has received extra training
in the diagnosis and treatment of the digestive disorders. Other providers
involved in the treatment of digestive diseases include:

      * Nurse practitioners (NPs) or physician assistants (PAs)
      * Nutritionists or dietitians
      * Primary care doctors
      * Radiologists
      * Surgeons

## Images

      * ![Normal abdominal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9684t.jpg)Normal abdominal anatomy

## References

Bope ET, Kellerman RD. The digestive system. In: Bope ET, Kellerman RD, eds.
_Conn's Current Therapy 2017_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 4.

Maheshwari A, Carlo WA. Digestive system disorders. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 102.

Mayer EA. Functional gastrointestinal disorders: irritable bowel syndrome,
dyspepsia, chest pain of presumed esophageal origin, and heartburn. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 137.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Digestive
System](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DigestiveDiseasesandIntestinalCancer_thumb.jpg)Digestive
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

