Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003137.htm    
                                Description: Abdominal sounds are the noises made by the intestines.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Abdominal sounds

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003137.htm

# Abdominal sounds

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Abdominal sounds are the noises made by the intestines.

## Considerations

Abdominal sounds (bowel sounds) are made by the movement of the intestines as
they push food through. The intestines are hollow, so bowel sounds echo
through the abdomen much like the sounds heard from water pipes.

Most bowel sounds are normal. They simply mean that the gastrointestinal tract
is working. A health care provider can check abdominal sounds by listening to
the abdomen with a stethoscope (auscultation).

Most bowel sounds are harmless. However, there are some cases in which
abnormal sounds can indicate a problem.

Ileus is a condition in which there is a lack of intestinal activity. Many
medical conditions may lead to ileus. This problem can cause gas, fluids, and
the contents of the intestines to build up and break open (rupture) the bowel
wall. The provider may be unable to hear any bowel sounds when listening to
the abdomen.

Reduced (hypoactive) bowel sounds include a reduction in the loudness, tone,
or regularity of the sounds. They are a sign that intestinal activity has
slowed.

Hypoactive bowel sounds are normal during sleep. They also occur normally for
a short time after the use of certain medicines and after abdominal surgery.
Decreased or absent bowel sounds often indicate constipation.

Increased (hyperactive) bowel sounds can sometimes be heard even without a
stethoscope. Hyperactive bowel sounds mean there is an increase in intestinal
activity. This may happen with diarrhea or after eating.

Abdominal sounds are always evaluated together with symptoms such as:

      * Gas
      * Nausea
      * Presence or absence of bowel movements
      * Vomiting 

If bowel sounds are hypoactive or hyperactive and there are other abnormal
symptoms, you should continue to follow-up with your provider.

For example, no bowel sounds after a period of hyperactive bowel sounds can
mean there is a rupture of the intestines, or strangulation of the bowel and
death (necrosis) of the bowel tissue.

Very high-pitched bowel sounds may be a sign of early bowel obstruction.

## Causes

Most of the sounds you hear in your stomach and intestines are due to normal
digestion. They are not a cause for concern. Many conditions can cause
hyperactive or hypoactive bowel sounds. Most are harmless and do not need to
be treated.

The following is a list of more serious conditions that can cause abnormal
bowel sounds.

Hyperactive, hypoactive, or missing bowel sounds may be caused by:

      * Blocked blood vessels prevent the intestines from getting proper blood flow. For example, blood clots can cause mesenteric artery occlusion.
      * Mechanical bowel obstruction is caused by hernia, tumor, adhesions, or similar conditions that can block the intestines.
      * Paralytic ileus is a problem with the nerves to the intestines. 

Other causes of hypoactive bowel sounds include:

      * Drugs that slow down movement in the intestines such as opiates (including codeine), anticholinergics, and phenothiazines
      * General anesthesia
      * Radiation to the abdomen
      * Spinal anesthesia
      * Surgery in the abdomen 

Other causes of hyperactive bowel sounds include:

      * Crohn disease
      * Diarrhea
      * Food allergy
      * GI bleeding
      * Infectious enteritis
      * Ulcerative colitis

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have any symptoms such as:

      * Bleeding from your rectum
      * Nausea
      * Diarrhea or constipation that continues
      * Vomiting 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will examine you and ask you questions about your medical history
and symptoms. You may be asked:

      * What other symptoms do you have?
      * Do you have abdominal pain?
      * Do you have diarrhea or constipation?
      * Do you have abdominal distention?
      * Do you have excessive or absent gas (flatus)?
      * Have you noticed any bleeding from the rectum or black stools? 

You may need the following tests:

      * Abdominal CT scan
      * Abdominal x-ray
      * Blood tests
      * Endoscopy

If there are signs of an emergency, you will be sent to the hospital. A tube
will be placed through your nose or mouth into the stomach or intestines. This
empties your intestines. In most cases, you will not be allowed to eat or
drink anything so your intestines can rest. You will be given fluids through a
vein (intravenously).

You may be given medicine to reduce symptoms and to treat the cause of the
problem. The type of medicine will depend on the cause of the problem. Some
people may need surgery right away.

## Alternative Names

Bowel sounds

## Images

      * ![Normal abdominal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8606t.jpg)Normal abdominal anatomy

## References

Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW. Abdomen. In: Ball JW,
Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW, eds. _Seidel's Guide to Physical
Examination_. 9th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2019:chap 18.

McQuaid KR. Approach to the patient with gastrointestinal disease. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 132.

Squires R, Carter SN, Postier RG. Acute abdomen. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 45.

## Review Date 10/8/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Digestive
System](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DigestiveDiseasesandIntestinalCancer_thumb.jpg)Digestive
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

