Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001129.htm    
                                Description: A gastrointestinal fistula is an abnormal opening in the stomach or intestines that allows the contents to leak.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gastrointestinal fistula

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001129.htm

# Gastrointestinal fistula

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A gastrointestinal fistula is an abnormal opening in the stomach or intestines
that allows the contents to leak.

      * Leaks that go through to a part of the intestines are called entero-enteral fistulas.
      * Leaks that go through to the skin are called enterocutaneous fistulas.
      * Other organs can be involved, such as the bladder, vagina, anus, and colon.

## Causes

Most gastrointestinal fistulas occur after surgery. Other causes include:

      * Blockage in the intestine
      * Infection (such as diverticulitis)
      * Crohn disease
      * Radiation to the abdomen (most often given as part of cancer treatment)
      * Injury, such as deep wounds from stabbing or gunshot
      * Swallowing caustic substances (such as lye) 

## Symptoms

Depending on where the leak is, these fistulas may cause diarrhea, and poor
absorption of nutrients. Your body may not have as much water and fluids as it
needs.

      * Some fistulas may have no symptoms.
      * Other fistulas cause intestinal contents to leak through an opening in the skin.

## Exams and Tests

Tests may include:

      * Barium swallow to look in the stomach or small bowel
      * Barium enema to look in the colon
      * CT scan of the abdomen to look for fistulas between loops of the intestines or areas of infection
      * Fistulogram, in which contrast dye is injected into the opening of the skin of a fistula and x-rays are taken

## Treatment

Treatments may include:

      * Antibiotics
      * Immune suppressing medicines if the fistula is a result of Crohn disease
      * Surgery to remove the fistula and part of the intestines if the fistula is not healing
      * Nutrition through a vein while the fistula heals (in some cases) 

Some fistulas close on their own after a few weeks to months.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook depends on the person's overall health and how bad the fistula is.
People who are otherwise healthy have a very good chance of recovery.

## Possible Complications

Fistulas may result in malnutrition and dehydration, depending on their
location in the intestine. They may also cause skin problems and infection.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have:

      * Very bad diarrhea or other major change in bowel habits
      * Leakage of fluid from an opening on the abdomen or near the anus, particularly if you have recently had abdominal surgery

## Alternative Names

Entero-enteral fistula; Enterocutaneous fistula; Fistula - gastrointestinal;
Crohn disease - fistula

## Images

      * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs
      * ![Fistula](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9328t.jpg)Fistula

## References

De Prisco G, Celinski S, Spak CW. Abdominal abscesses and gastrointestinal
fistuals. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and
Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 28.

Lichtenstein GR. Inflammatory bowel disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 141.

Nussbaum MS, McFadden DW. Gastric, duodenal, and small intestinal fistulas.
In: Yeo CJ, ed. _Shackleford's Surgery of the Alimentary Tract_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 76.

## Review Date 4/9/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Digestive
System](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DigestiveDiseasesandIntestinalCancer_thumb.jpg)Digestive
Diseases _Read more_

![Fistulas](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Fistulas_thumb.jpg)Fistulas _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

