Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003127.htm    
                                Description: Satiety is the satisfied feeling of being full after eating. Early satiety is feeling full sooner than normal or after eating less than usual.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Satiety - early

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003127.htm

# Satiety - early

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Satiety is the satisfied feeling of being full after eating. Early satiety is
feeling full sooner than normal or after eating less than usual.

## Causes

Causes may include:

      * Gastric outlet obstruction
      * Heartburn
      * Nervous system problem that causes delayed stomach emptying
      * Stomach or abdominal tumor
      * Stomach (peptic) ulcer

## Home Care

Follow your health care provider's advice.

      * A liquid diet may be helpful. 
      * You may need to keep a detailed diet log. This is a place where you write down what you eat, how much, and when.
      * You may be comfortable if you eat small, frequent meals rather than big meals. 
      * A diet high in fat or high in fiber may worsen the feeling.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * The feeling lasts for days to weeks and does not get better.
      * You lose weight without trying.
      * You have dark stools.
      * You have nausea and vomiting, abdominal pain, or bloating.
      * You have fever and chills. 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will examine you and ask questions such as:

      * When did this symptom begin?
      * How long does each episode last?
      * What foods, if any, make the symptoms worse?
      * What other symptoms do you have (for example, vomiting, excessive gas, abdominal pain, or weight loss)?

Tests that may be performed include:

      * Complete blood count and blood differential to check for anemia
      * Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD)
      * Stool tests for bleeding
      * X-ray studies of the stomach, esophagus, and small intestine (abdominal x-ray and an upper GI and small bowel series)
      * Stomach-emptying studies

## Alternative Names

Abdominal fullness prematurely after meals

## Images

      * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Koch KL. Gastric neuromuscular function and neuromuscular disorders. In:
Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's
Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 49.

Tantawy H, Myslajek T. Diseases of the gastrointestinal system. In: Hines RL,
Marschall KE, eds. _Stoelting's Anesthesia and Co-Existing Disease_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 18.

## Review Date 7/11/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Digestive
System](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DigestiveDiseasesandIntestinalCancer_thumb.jpg)Digestive
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

