Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001594.htm    
                                Description: Hypervitaminosis D is a condition that occurs after taking very high doses of vitamin D.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hypervitaminosis D

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001594.htm

# Hypervitaminosis D

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hypervitaminosis D is a condition that occurs after taking very high doses of
vitamin D.

## Causes

The cause is excess intake of vitamin D. The doses need to be very high, far
above what most medical providers normally prescribe.

There has been a lot of confusion about vitamin D supplementation. The
recommended daily allowance (RDA) for vitamin D is between 400 and 800 IU/day,
according to age and pregnancy status. Higher doses may be needed for some
people, such as those with vitamin D deficiency, hypoparathyroidism, and other
conditions. However, most people do not need more than 2,000 IU of vitamin D a
day.

For most people, vitamin D toxicity only occurs with vitamin D doses above
10,000 IU per day.

## Symptoms

An excess of vitamin D causes abnormally high levels of calcium in the blood
(hypercalcemia). This can severely damage the kidneys, soft tissues, and bones
over time.

      * Constipation
      * Decreased appetite (anorexia)
      * Dehydration
      * Fatigue
      * Frequent urination
      * Irritability
      * Muscle weakness
      * Vomiting
      * Excessive thirst (polydipsia)
      * High blood pressure
      * Passing large amounts of urine (polyuria) 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you and ask about your symptoms.

Tests that may be ordered include:

      * Calcium in the blood
      * Calcium in the urine
      * 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D levels
      * Serum phosphorus
      * X-ray of the bone

## Treatment

Your provider will likely tell you to stop taking vitamin D. In severe cases,
other treatment may be needed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Recovery is expected, but permanent kidney damage can occur.

## Possible Complications

Health problems that can result from taking too much vitamin D over a long
time include:

      * Dehydration
      * Hypercalcemia
      * Kidney damage
      * Kidney stones 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You or your child shows symptoms of hypervitaminosis D and has been taking more vitamin D than the RDA
      * You or your child shows symptoms and has been taking a prescription or over-the-counter form of vitamin D

## Prevention

To prevent this condition, pay careful attention to the correct vitamin D
dose.

Many combination vitamin supplements contain vitamin D, so check the labels of
all the supplements you are taking for vitamin D content.

## Alternative Names

Vitamin D toxicity

## References

Aronson JK. Vitamin D analogues. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of
Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:478-487.

Greenbaum LA. Rickets and hypervitaminosis D. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 51.

## Review Date 11/17/2017

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Vitamin D](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VitaminD_thumb.jpg)Vitamin D _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

