Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002405.htm    
                                Description: Vitamin D is a fat-soluble vitamin. Fat-soluble vitamins are stored in the body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vitamin D

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002405.htm

# Vitamin D

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Vitamin D is a fat-soluble vitamin. Fat-soluble vitamins are stored in the
body's fatty tissue.

## Function

Vitamin D helps the body absorb calcium. Calcium and phosphate are two
minerals that you must have for normal bone formation.

In childhood, your body uses these minerals to produce bones. If you do not
get enough calcium, or if your body does not absorb enough calcium from your
diet, bone production and bone tissues may suffer.

Vitamin D deficiency can lead to osteoporosis in adults or rickets in
children.

## Food Sources

The body makes vitamin D when the skin is directly exposed to the sun. That is
why it is often called the "sunshine" vitamin. Most people meet at least some
of their vitamin D needs this way.

Very few foods naturally contain vitamin D. As a result, many foods are
fortified with vitamin D. Fortified means that vitamins have been added to the
food.

Fatty fish (such as tuna, salmon, and mackerel) are among the best sources of
vitamin D.

Beef liver, cheese, and egg yolks provide small amounts.

Mushrooms provide some vitamin D. Some mushrooms you buy in the store have
higher vitamin D content because they have been exposed to ultraviolet light.

Most milk in the United States is fortified with 400 IU vitamin D per quart.
Most of the time, foods made from milk, such as cheese and ice cream, are not
fortified.

Vitamin D is added to many breakfast cereals. It is also added to some brands
of soy beverages, orange juice, yogurt, and margarine. Check the nutrition
fact panel on the food label.

SUPPLEMENTS

It can be hard to get enough vitamin D from food sources alone. As a result,
some people may need to take a vitamin D supplement. Vitamin D found in
supplements and fortified foods comes in two different forms:

      * D2 (ergocalciferol)
      * D3 (cholecalciferol)

Follow a diet that provides the proper amount of calcium and vitamin D. Your
provider may recommend higher doses of vitamin D if you have risk factors for
osteoporosis or a low level of this vitamin.

## Side Effects

Too much vitamin D can make the intestines absorb too much calcium. This may
cause high levels of calcium in the blood. High blood calcium can lead to:

      * Calcium deposits in soft tissues such as the heart and lungs 
      * Confusion and disorientation
      * Damage to the kidneys 
      * Kidney stones
      * Nausea, vomiting, constipation, poor appetite, weakness, and weight loss

## Recommendations

Some experts have suggested that a few minutes of sunlight directly on the
skin of your face, arms, back, or legs (without sunscreen) every day can
produce the body's requirement of vitamin D. However, the amount of vitamin D
produced by sunlight exposure can vary greatly from person to person.

      * People who do not live in sunny places may not make enough vitamin D within a limited time in the sun. Cloudy days, shade, and having dark-colored skin also cut down on the amount of vitamin D the skin makes.
      * Because exposure to sunlight is a risk for skin cancer, exposure for more than a few minutes without sunscreen is not recommended.

The best measure of your vitamin D status is to look at blood levels of a form
known as 25-hydroxyvitamin D. Blood levels are described either as nanograms
per milliliter (ng/mL) or nanomoles per liter (nmol/L), where 0.4 ng/mL = 1
nmol/L.

Levels below 30 nmol/L (12 ng/mL) are too low for bone or overall health, and
levels above 125 nmol/L (50 ng/mL) are probably too high. Levels of 50 nmol/L
or above (20 ng/mL or above) are enough for most people.

The Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) for vitamins reflects how much of each
vitamin most people should get on a daily basis.

      * The RDA for vitamins may be used as goals for each person.
      * How much of each vitamin you need depends on your age and gender. Other factors, such as pregnancy and your health, are also important.

Infants (adequate intake of vitamin D)

      * 0 to 6 months: 400 IU (10 micrograms [mcg] per day)
      * 7 to 12 months: 400 IU (10 mcg/day)

Children

      * 1 to 3 years: 600 IU (15 mcg/day)
      * 4 to 8 years: 600 IU (15 mcg/day)

Older children and adults

      * 9 to 70 years: 600 IU (15 mcg/day)
      * Adults over 70 years: 800 IU (20 mcg/day)
      * Pregnancy and breastfeeding: 600 IU (15 mcg/day)

The National Osteoporosis Foundation (NOF) recommends a higher dose for people
age 50 and older, 800 to 1,000 IU of vitamin D daily. Ask your health care
provider which amount is best for you.

Vitamin D toxicity almost always occurs from using too many supplements. The
safe upper limit for vitamin D is:

      * 1,000 to 1,500 IU/day for infants (25 to 38 mcg/day)
      * 2,500 to 3,000 IU/day for children 1 to 8 years; ages 1 to 3: 63 mcg/day; ages 4 to 8: 75 mcg/day
      * 4,000 IU/day for children 9 years and older, adults, and pregnant and breastfeeding teens and women (100 mcg/day)

One microgram of cholecalciferol (D3) is the same as 40 IU of vitamin D.

## Alternative Names

Cholecalciferol; Vitamin D3; Ergocalciferol; Vitamin D2

## Images

      * ![Vitamin D benefit](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18110t.jpg)Vitamin D benefit
      * ![Vitamin D deficit](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18111t.jpg)Vitamin D deficit
      * ![Vitamin D source](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18112t.jpg)Vitamin D source

## References

Mason JB. Vitamins, trace minerals, and other micronutrients. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 218.

National Osteoporosis Foundation website. Clinician's Guide to Prevention and
Treatment of Osteoporosis. 2014 Issue, Version 1.
www.iscd.org/documents/2014/10/nof-clin-guidelines.pdf. Accessed May 5, 2017.

Salwen MJ. Vitamins and trace elements. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 26.

## Review Date 2/2/2019

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CNSC, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Vitamin D](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VitaminD_thumb.jpg)Vitamin D _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

