Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002950.htm    
                                Description: Heart surgery is any surgery done on the heart muscle, valves, arteries, or the aorta and other large arteries connected to the heart.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Open heart surgery

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002950.htm

# Open heart surgery

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Heart surgery is any surgery done on the heart muscle, valves, arteries, or
the aorta and other large arteries connected to the heart.

The term "open heart surgery" means that you are connected to a heart-lung
bypass machine, or bypass pump during surgery.

      * Your heart is stopped while you are connected to this machine.
      * This machine does the work of your heart and lungs while your heart is stopped for the surgery. The machine adds oxygen to your blood, moves blood through your body, and removes carbon dioxide. 

Common types of open-heart surgery include:

      * Heart bypass surgery (coronary artery bypass graft -- CABG)
      * Heart valve surgery
      * Surgery to correct heart defect present at birth

New procedures are being done on the heart through smaller cuts. Some new
procedures are being done while the heart is still beating.

## Alternative Names

Heart surgery - open

## Images

      * ![Heart valve surgery - Series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19010t.jpg)Heart valve surgery - series

## References

Bainbridge D, Cheng DCH. Fast-track postoperative cardiac recovery and
outcomes. In: Kaplan JA, ed. _Kaplan's Cardiac Anesthesia_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017;chap 37.

Mestres CA, Bernal JM, Pomar JL. Surgical treatment of tricuspid valve
diseases. In: Sellke FW, del Nido PJ, Swanson SJ, eds. _Sabiston and Spencer
Surgery of the Chest._ 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 81.

Montealegre-Gallegos M, Owais K, Mahmood F, Matyal R. Anesthesia and
intraoperative care for the adult cardiac patient. In: Sellke FW, del Nido PJ,
Swanson SJ, eds. _Sabiston and Spencer Surgery of the Chest_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 59.

Omer S, Cornwell LD, Bakaeen FG. Acquired heart disease: coronary
insufficiency. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds.
_Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
59.

## Review Date 2/28/2018

Updated by: Mary C. Mancini, MD, PhD, Department of Surgery, Louisiana State
University Health Sciences Center-Shreveport, Shreveport, LA. Review provided
by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Internal review and update on 07/12/2019 by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart Surgery](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartSurgery_thumb.jpg)Heart
Surgery _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

