Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000784.htm    
                                Description: The DASH diet is low in salt and rich in fruits, vegetable, whole grains, low-fat dairy, and lean protein. DASH stands for Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension. The diet was first created to help lower    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Understanding the DASH diet

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000784.htm

# Understanding the DASH diet

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The DASH diet is low in salt and rich in fruits, vegetable, whole grains, low-
fat dairy, and lean protein. DASH stands for Dietary Approaches to Stop
Hypertension. The diet was first created to help lower high blood pressure. It
is also a healthy way to lose weight.

## How it Works

The DASH diet helps you eat nutritious foods.

This is not just a traditional low-salt diet. The DASH diet emphasizes foods
high in calcium, potassium, and magnesium, and fiber, which, when combined,
help lower blood pressure.

To follow the DASH diet for weight loss, you eat plenty of:

      * Non-starchy vegetables and fruit 

You eat moderate portions of:

      * Fat-free or low-fat dairy products
      * Whole grains
      * Lean meats, poultry, beans, soy foods, legumes, and eggs and egg substitutes
      * Fish
      * Nuts and seeds
      * Heart-healthy fats, such as olive and canola oil or avocados 

You should limit:

      * Sweets and sugar-sweetened beverages
      * Foods high in saturated fats such as full- fat dairy, fatty meals, tropical oils, and most packaged snacks
      * Alcohol intake 

Your health care provider can help you figure out how many calories you need
to eat each day. Your calorie needs are influenced by your age, gender,
activity level, medical conditions, and whether or not you are trying to lose
or maintain your weight. The "A Day With the DASH Eating Plan" helps you track
how many servings of each type of food you can eat. There are plans for 1,200;
1,400; 1,600; 1,800; 2,000; 2,600; and 3,100 calories per day. DASH suggests
smaller portions and healthy food swaps to aid weight loss.

You can follow an eating plan that allows for either 2,300 milligrams (mg) or
1,500 mg of salt (sodium) per day.

## Off-Limit Foods

When following the DASH plan, you should limit how much you eat of these
foods:

      * Foods with added salt (sodium) and adding salt to foods
      * Alcohol
      * Sugar-sweetened beverages
      * Foods high in saturated fats, such as whole fat dairy and deep-fried foods
      * Packaged snacks, which are often high in fat, salt, and sugar 

Before you increase the potassium in your diet or use salt substitutes (which
often contain potassium), check with your provider. People who have kidney
problems or who take certain medicines must be careful about how much
potassium they consume.

## The Role of Exercise

DASH recommends at least 30 minutes of exercise a day, most days of the week.
The important thing is to total at least 2 hours and 30 minutes per week of
activities at a moderate-intensity level. Do exercises that get your heart
pumping. To help prevent weight gain, exercise for 60 minutes a day.

## Health Benefits

The DASH diet has been widely studied and has many health benefits. Following
this diet plan may help:

      * Lower high blood pressure
      * Reduce the risk for heart disease, heart failure, and stroke
      * Help prevent or control type 2 diabetes
      * Improve cholesterol levels
      * Reduce the chance of kidney stones 

The National Heart, Blood, and Lung Institute helped develop the DASH diet. It
is also recommended by:

      * The American Heart Association
      * The 2015-2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans
      * U.S. guidelines for treatment of high blood pressure 

## Possible Health Concerns

Following this diet will provide all the nutrients you need. It is safe for
both adults and children. It is low in saturated fat and high in fiber, an
eating style that is recommended for everyone.

If you have a health condition, it is a good idea to talk with your doctor
before starting this or any diet plan to lose weight.

On the DASH diet eating plan you will likely be eating a lot more of fruits,
vegetables, and whole grains. These foods are high in fiber and increasing
your intake of fiber too quickly may cause GI discomfort. Slowly increase how
much fiber you eat each day and be sure to drink plenty of fluids.

## Ease of Use

In general, the diet is easy to follow and should leave you feeling satisfied.
You will be buying more fruits and vegetables than before, which may be more
expensive than prepared foods.

The diet is flexible enough to follow if you are vegetarian, vegan, or gluten-
free.

## Where to Find More Information

You can get started by going to the National Heart, Blood, and Lung Institute
web page "What Is the DASH Eating Plan?" -- www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-
topics/dash-eating-plan.

You can also buy books about the DASH diet that include diet tips and recipes.

## Alternative Names

Hypertension - DASH diet; Blood-pressure - DASH diet

## References

Blumenthal JA, Babyak MA, Hinderliter A, et al. Effects of the DASH diet alone
and in combination with exercise and weight loss on blood pressure and
cardiovascular biomarkers in men and women with high blood pressure: the
ENCORE study. _Arch Intern Med_. 2010;170(2):126-135. PMID: 20101007
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20101007.

Lessens DM, Rakel D. The DASH diet. In: Rakel D, ed. _Integrative Medicine_.
4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 89.

National Heart, Lung, and Blood institute website. DASH eating plan.
www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/dash-eating-plan. Accessed June 14, 2018.

## Review Date 6/13/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, The Brooklyn Hospital Center, Brooklyn, NY. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * DASH Eating Plan

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

