Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001025.htm    
                                Description: A pingueculum is a common, noncancerous growth of the conjunctiva. This is the clear, thin tissue that covers the white part of the eye (sclera). The growth occurs in the part of the conjunctiva that is    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pinguecula

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001025.htm

# Pinguecula

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A pingueculum is a common, noncancerous growth of the conjunctiva. This is the
clear, thin tissue that covers the white part of the eye (sclera). The growth
occurs in the part of the conjunctiva that is exposed when the eye is open.

## Causes

The exact cause is unknown. Long-term sunlight exposure and eye irritation may
be factors. Arc-welding is a major job-related risk.

## Symptoms

A pingueculum looks like a small, yellowish bump on the conjunctiva near the
cornea. It can appear on either side of the cornea. However, it more often
occurs on the nose (nasal) side. The growth may increase in size over many
years.

## Exams and Tests

An eye exam is often enough to diagnose this disorder.

## Treatment

The only treatment needed in most cases is the use of lubricating eye drops.
Keeping the eye moist with artificial tears may help prevent the area from
becoming inflamed. Temporary use of mild steroid eye drops can also be
helpful. Rarely, the growth may need to be removed for comfort or for cosmetic
reasons.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

This condition is noncancerous (benign) and the outlook is good.

## Possible Complications

The pingueculum may grow over the cornea and block vision. When this happens,
the growth is called a pterygium. These two conditions occur under similar
conditions. However, they are thought to be separate diseases.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if the pingueculum changes in size, shape, or
color, or if you would like to have it removed.

## Prevention

Things you can do that may help prevent a pingueculum or keep the problem from
getting worse include:

      * Keeping the eye well lubricated with artificial tears
      * Wearing good quality sunglasses
      * Avoiding eye irritants 

## Images

      * ![Eye anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9553t.jpg)Eye anatomy

## References

Reidy JJ. Corneal and conjunctival degenerations. In: Mannis MJ, Holland EJ,
eds. _Cornea_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 74.

Shtein RM, Sugar A. Pterygium and conjunctival degenerations. In: Yanoff M,
Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap
4.9.

Yanoff M, Cameron JD. Diseases of the visual system. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 423.

## Review Date 9/30/2018

Updated by: Audrey Tai, DO, MS, Assistant Clinical Professor (Voluntary),
University of California - Irvine, Irvine, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eye Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeDiseases_thumb.jpg)Eye
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

