Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001019.htm    
                                Description: Episcleritis is irritation and inflammation of the episclera, a thin layer of tissue covering the white part (sclera) of the eye. It is not an infection.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Episcleritis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001019.htm

# Episcleritis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Episcleritis is irritation and inflammation of the episclera, a thin layer of
tissue covering the white part (sclera) of the eye. It is not an infection.

## Causes

Episcleritis is a common condition. In most cases the problem is mild and
vision is normal.

The cause is often unknown. But, it may occur with certain diseases, such as:

      * Herpes zoster
      * Rheumatoid arthritis
      * SjÃ¶gren syndrome
      * Syphilis
      * Tuberculosis

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * A pink or purple color to the normally white part of the eye
      * Eye pain
      * Eye tenderness
      * Sensitivity to light
      * Tearing of the eye

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will do an eye exam to diagnose the disorder. Most
of the time, no special tests are needed.

## Treatment

The condition most often goes away on its own in 1 to 2 weeks. Using
corticosteroid eye drops may help ease the symptoms faster.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Episcleritis most often improves without treatment. However, treatment may
make symptoms go away sooner.

## Possible Complications

In some cases, the condition may return. Rarely, irritation and inflammation
of the white part of the eye may develop. This is called scleritis.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have symptoms of episcleritis that last
for more than 2 weeks. Get checked again if your pain gets worse or you have
problems with your vision.

## Images

      * ![External and internal eye anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8867t.jpg)External and internal eye anatomy

## References

Denniston AK, Rhodes B, Gayed M, Carruthers D, Gordon C, et al. Rheumatic
disease. In: Schachat AP, Sadda SVR, Hinton DR, Wilkinson CP, Wiedemann P,
eds. _Ryan's Retina_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 83.

Goldstein DA, Patel SS, Tessler HH. Episcleritis and scleritis. In: Yanoff M,
Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 4th ed. St Louis, MO: Mosby Elsevier;
2014:chap 4.11.

Yanoff M, Cameron JD. Diseases of the visual system. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 423.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eye Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeDiseases_thumb.jpg)Eye
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

