Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001011.htm    
                                Description: A pterygium is a noncancerous growth that starts in the clear, thin tissue (conjunctiva) of the eye. This growth covers the white part of the eye (sclera) and extends onto the cornea. It is often slightly    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pterygium

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001011.htm

# Pterygium

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A pterygium is a noncancerous growth that starts in the clear, thin tissue
(conjunctiva) of the eye. This growth covers the white part of the eye
(sclera) and extends onto the cornea. It is often slightly raised and contains
visible blood vessels. The problem may occur on one or both eyes.

## Causes

The exact cause is unknown. It is more common in people who have a lot of
exposure to sunlight and wind, such as people who work outdoors.

Risk factors are exposure to sunny, dusty, sandy, or windblown areas. Farmers,
fishermen, and people living near the equator are often affected. Pterygium is
rare in children.

## Symptoms

The main symptom of a pterygium is a painless area of raised white tissue that
has blood vessels on the inner or outer edge of the cornea. Sometimes the
pterygium has no symptoms. However, it may become inflamed and cause burning,
irritation, or a feeling like there's something foreign in the eye. Vision may
be affected if the growth extends far enough onto the cornea.

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam of the eyes and eyelids confirms the diagnosis. Special tests
are not needed most of the time.

## Treatment

In most cases, treatment involves only wearing sunglasses and using artificial
tears. Using artificial tears to keep the eyes moist may help prevent a
pterygium from becoming inflamed and getting bigger. Mild steroid eye drops
can be used to calm inflammation if it occurs. Surgery can be used to remove
the growth for cosmetic reasons or if it blocks vision.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most pterygia cause no problems and do not need surgical treatment. If a
pterygium affects the cornea, removing it can have good results.

## Possible Complications

Ongoing inflammation can cause a pterygium to grow farther onto the cornea. A
pterygium can return after it is removed.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

People with pterygium should be seen by an ophthalmologist each year. This
will enable the condition to be treated before it affects vision.

Call your ophthalmologist if you have had a pterygium in the past and your
symptoms return.

## Prevention

Taking steps to protect the eyes from ultraviolet light may help prevent this
condition. This includes wearing sunglasses and a hat with a brim.

## Images

      * ![Eye anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9553t.jpg)Eye anatomy

## References

Folberg R. The eye. In: Kumar V, Abbas AK, Aster JC, eds. _Robbins and Cotran
Pathologic Basis of Disease_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 29.

Shtein RM, Sugar A. Pterygium and conjunctival degenerations.In: Yanoff M,
Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap
4.9.

Tan DTH, Chong EW. Management of Pterygium. In: Mannis MJ, Holland EJ, eds.
_Cornea_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 141.

## Review Date 9/30/2018

Updated by: Audrey Tai, DO, MS, Assistant Clinical Professor (Voluntary),
University of California - Irvine, Irvine, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eye Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeDiseases_thumb.jpg)Eye
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

