Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003319.htm    
                                Description: Heterochromia isÂ different colored eyes in the same person.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heterochromia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003319.htm

# Heterochromia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Heterochromia isÂ different colored eyes in the same person.

## Considerations

Heterochromia is uncommon in humans. However, it is quite common in dogs (such
as Dalmatians and Australian sheep dogs), cats, and horses.

## Causes

Most cases of heterochromia are hereditary, caused by a disease or syndrome,
or due to an injury. Sometimes, one eye may change color following certain
diseases or injuries.

Specific causes of eye color changes include:

      * Bleeding (hemorrhage)
      * Familial heterochromia
      * Foreign object in the eye
      * Glaucoma, or some medicines used to treat it
      * Injury
      * Mild inflammation affecting only one eye
      * Neurofibromatosis
      * Waardenburg syndrome

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Talk to your health care provider if you notice new changes in the color of
one eye, or two differently colored eyes in your infant. A thorough eye exam
is needed to rule out a medical problem.

Some conditions and syndromes associated with heterochromia, such as
pigmentary glaucoma, can only be detected by a thorough eye exam.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider may ask the following questions to help evaluate the cause:

      * Did you notice the two different eye colors when the child was born, shortly after the birth, or recently?
      * Are any other symptoms present? 

An infant with heterochromia should be examined by both a pediatrician and an
ophthalmologist for other possible problems.

A complete eye exam can rule out most causes of heterochromia. If there
doesn't seem to be an underlying disorder, no further testing may be needed.
If another disorder is suspected diagnostic tests, such as blood tests or
chromosome studies, may be done to confirm the diagnosis.

## Alternative Names

Differently colored eyes; Eyes - different colors

## Images

      * ![Heterochromia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17220t.jpg)Heterochromia

## References

Lee BS, Samuelson TW. Glaucoma associated with pseudoexfoliation syndrome. In:
Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 10.13.

Olitsky SE, Hug D, Plummer LS, Stahl ED, Ariss MM, Lindquist TP. Abnormalities
of pupil and iris. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds.
_Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 622.

Orge FH, Grigorian F. Examination and common problems of the neonatal eye. In:
Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-
Perinatal Medicine: Diseases of the Fetus and Infant_. 10th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 103.

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eye Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeDiseases_thumb.jpg)Eye
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

