Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003032.htm    
                                Description: Pain in the eye may be described as a burning, throbbing, aching, or stabbing sensation in or around the eye. It may also feel like you have a foreign object in your eye.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Eye pain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003032.htm

# Eye pain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pain in the eye may be described as a burning, throbbing, aching, or stabbing
sensation in or around the eye. It may also feel like you have a foreign
object in your eye.

This article discusses eye pain that is not caused by injury or surgery.

## Considerations

Pain in the eye can be an important symptom of a health problem. Make sure you
tell your health care provider if you have eye pain that does not go away.

Tired eyes or some eye discomfort (eyestrain) is most often a minor problem
and it will often go away with rest. These problems may be caused by the wrong
eyeglass or contact lens prescription. Sometimes they are due to a problem
with the eye muscles.

## Causes

Many things can cause pain in or around the eye. If the pain is severe, does
not go away, or causes vision loss, seek medical attention immediately.

Some things that can cause eye pain are:

      * Infections
      * Inflammation
      * Contact lens problems
      * Dry eye
      * Acute glaucoma
      * Sinus problems
      * Neuropathy
      * Eyestrain
      * Headache
      * Flu

## Home Care

Resting your eyes can often relieve discomfort due to eye strain.

If you wear contacts, try using glasses for a few days to see if the pain goes
away.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if:

      * The pain is severe (call immediately), or it continues for more than 2 days
      * You have decreased vision along with the eye pain
      * You have chronic diseases like arthritis or autoimmune problems
      * You have pain along with redness, swelling, discharge, or pressure in the eyes

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will check your vision, eye movements, and the back of your eye.
If there is a major concern, you should see an ophthalmologist. This is a
doctor who specializes in eye problems.

To help find the source of the problem, your provider may ask:

      * Do you have pain in both eyes?
      * Is the pain in the eye or around the eye?
      * Does it feel like something is in your eye now?
      * Does your eye burn or throb?
      * Did the pain begin suddenly?
      * Is the pain worse when you move your eyes?
      * Are you light sensitive?
      * What other symptoms do you have? 

The following eye tests may be done:

      * Slit-lamp examination
      * Fluorescein examination
      * Eye pressure check if glaucoma is suspected
      * Pupillary response to light

If the pain seems to come from the surface of the eye, such as with a foreign
body, the provider may put anesthetic drops in your eyes. If the pain goes
away, that will often confirm the surface as the source of the pain.

## Alternative Names

Ophthalmalgia; Pain - eye

## References

Dupre AA, Wightman JM. Red and painful eye. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 19.

Freidl KB, Troost BT, Moster ML. Migraine and other headaches. In: Tasman W,
Jaeger EA, eds. _Duane's Ophthalmology_. 2013 ed. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott
Williams & Wilkins; 2013:vol 2;chap 16.

Goodglick TA, Kay MD, Glaser JS, et al. Orbital disease and neuro-
ophthalmology. In: Tasman W, Jaeger EA, eds. _Duane's Ophthalmology_. 2013 ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; 2013:vol 2;chap 14.

Yanoff M, Cameron D. Diseases of the visual system. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 423.

## Review Date 12/2/2017

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eye Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeDiseases_thumb.jpg)Eye
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

