Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003315.htm    
                                Description: White spots in the pupil is a condition that causes the pupil of the eye to look white instead of black.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pupil - white spots

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003315.htm

# Pupil - white spots

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

White spots in the pupil is a condition that causes the pupil of the eye to
look white instead of black.

## Considerations

The pupil of the human eye is normally black. In flash photographs the pupil
may appear red. This is called the "red reflex" by health care providers and
is normal.

Sometimes, the pupil of the eye may appear white, or the normal red reflex may
appear to be white. This is not a normal condition, and you need to see an eye
care provider right away.

There are many different causes of white pupil or white reflex. Other
conditions also can mimic white pupil. If the cornea, which is normally clear,
becomes cloudy, it may look similar to a white pupil. Although the causes of a
cloudy or white cornea are different from those of a white pupil or white
reflex, these problems also need medical attention right away.

Cataracts may also cause the pupil to appear white.

## Causes

Causes of this condition may include:

      * Coats disease - exudative retinopathy
      * Coloboma
      * Congenital cataract (may be hereditary or may result from other conditions, including congenital rubella, galactosemia, retrolental fibroplasia)
      * Persistent primary hyperplastic vitreous
      * Retinoblastoma
      * Toxocara canis (infection caused by a parasite)
      * Uveitis

## Home Care

Most causes of white pupil will cause decreased vision. This may often occur
before the pupil appears to be white.

Detecting a white pupil is especially important in infants. Babies are unable
to communicate to others that their vision is decreased. It is also harder to
measure an infant's vision during an eye exam.

If you see a white pupil, call your provider right away. Well-child exams
routinely screen for a white pupil in children. A child that develops a white
pupil or cloudy cornea needs immediate attention, preferably from an eye
specialist.

It is important to get diagnosed early if the problem is caused by
retinoblastoma since this disease can be fatal.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if you notice any color changes in the pupil or cornea
of the eye.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will do a physical exam and ask about your symptoms and medical
history.

The physical exam will include a detailed eye examination.

The following tests may be performed:

      * Ophthalmoscopy
      * Slit-lamp exam
      * Standard eye exam
      * Visual acuity

Other tests may that be done include a head CT or MRI scan.

## Alternative Names

Leukocoria

## Images

      * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye
      * ![White spots in the pupil](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17159t.jpg)White spots in the pupil
      * ![White pupil](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9313t.jpg)White pupil

## References

Olitsky SE, Hug D, Plummer LS, Stahl ED, Ariss MM, Lindquist TP. Examination
of the eye. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 619.

Shields CL, Shields JA. Retinoblastoma. In: Tasman W, Jaeger EA, eds. _Duane's
Ophthalmology_. 2013 ed. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins;
2013:vol 3;chap 35.

Yanoff M, Cameron JD. Disease of the visual system. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 423.

## Review Date 12/2/2017

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eye Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeDiseases_thumb.jpg)Eye
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

