Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001623.htm    
                                Description: Orbital pseudotumor is the swelling of tissue behind the eye in an area called the orbit. The orbit is the hollow space in the skull where the eye sits. The orbit protects the eyeball and the muscles and    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Orbital pseudotumor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001623.htm

# Orbital pseudotumor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Orbital pseudotumor is the swelling of tissue behind the eye in an area called
the orbit. The orbit is the hollow space in the skull where the eye sits. The
orbit protects the eyeball and the muscles and tissue that surround it.
Orbital pseudotumor does not spread to other tissues or places in the body.

## Causes

The cause is unknown. It mostly affects young women, although it can occur at
any age.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Pain in eye, and it may be severe
      * Restricted eye movement
      * Decreased vision
      * Double vision
      * Eye swelling (proptosis)
      * Red eye (rare) 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine your eye. If you have signs of
pseudotumor, additional tests will be done to make sure you don't have other
conditions that may look like pseudotumor. The two most common other
conditions are:

      * A cancer tumor
      * Thyroid eye disease

Tests may include:

      * CT scan of the head
      * MRI of the head
      * Ultrasound of the head
      * Skull x-ray
      * Biopsy

## Treatment

Mild cases may go away without treatment. More severe cases most often respond
well to corticosteroid treatment. If the condition is very bad, the swelling
may put pressure on the eyeball and damage it. Surgery may be needed to remove
part of the bones of the orbit to relieve the pressure.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most cases are mild and outcomes are good. Severe cases may not respond well
to treatment and there may be some loss of vision. Orbital pseudotumor most
often involves only one eye.

## Possible Complications

Severe cases of orbital pseudotumor may push the eye forward so much that the
lids cannot cover and protect the cornea. This causes the eye to dry out. The
cornea may become cloudy or develop an ulcer. Also, the eye muscles may not be
able to properly aim the eye which can cause double vision.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

People with this condition need regular follow-up care with an eye doctor who
is familiar with the treatment of orbital disease.

Call your provider right away if you have any of the following problems:

      * Irritation of the cornea
      * Redness
      * Pain
      * Decreased vision

## Alternative Names

Idiopathic orbital inflammatory syndrome (IOIS)

## Images

      * ![Skull anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8915t.jpg)Skull anatomy

## References

McNab AA. Orbital infection and inflammation. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds.
_Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 12.14.

Wang MY, Rubin RM, Sadun AA. Ocular myopathies. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds.
_Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 9.18.

Yanoff M, Cameron JD. Diseases of the visual system. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 423.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eye Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeDiseases_thumb.jpg)Eye
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

