Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003314.htm    
                                Description: Anisocoria is unequal pupil size. The pupil is the black part in the center of the eye. It gets larger in dim light and smaller in bright light.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Anisocoria

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003314.htm

# Anisocoria

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Anisocoria is unequal pupil size. The pupil is the black part in the center of
the eye. It gets larger in dim light and smaller in bright light.

## Considerations

Slight differences in pupil sizes are found in up to 1 in 5 healthy people.
Most often, the diameter difference is less than 0.5 mm, but it can be up to 1
mm.

Babies born with different sized pupils may not have any underlying disorder.
If other family members also have similar pupils, then the pupil size
difference could be genetic and is nothing to worry about.

Also, for unknown reasons, pupils may temporarily differ in size. If there are
no other symptoms and if the pupils return to normal, then it is nothing to
worry about.

Unequal pupil sizes of more than 1 mm that develop later in life and do NOT
return to equal size may be a sign of an eye, brain, blood vessel, or nerve
disease.

## Causes

The use of eye drops is a common cause of a harmless change in pupil size.
Other medicines that get in the eyes, including medicine from asthma inhalers,
can change pupil size.

Other causes of unequal pupil sizes may include:

      * Aneurysm in the brain
      * Bleeding inside the skull caused by head injury
      * Brain tumor or abscessÂ (such as, pontine lesions)Â 
      * Excess pressure in one eye caused by glaucoma
      * Increased intracranial pressure, because of brain swelling, intracranial hemorrhage, acute stroke, or intracranial tumor
      * Infection of membranes around the brain (meningitis or encephalitis)
      * Migraine headache
      * Seizure (pupil size difference may remain long after seizure is over)
      * Tumor, mass, or lymph node in the upper chest or lymph node causing pressure on a nerve may cause decreased sweating, a small pupil, or drooping eyelid all on the affected side (Horner syndrome)
      * Diabetic oculomotor nerve palsy
      * Prior eye surgery for cataracts  

## Home Care

Treatment depends on the cause of the unequal pupil size. You should see a
health care provider if you have sudden changes that result in unequal pupil
size.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact a provider if you have persistent, unexplained, or sudden changes in
pupil size. If there is any recent change in pupil size, it may be a sign of a
very serious condition.

If you have differing pupil size after an eye or head injury, get medical help
immediately.

Always seek immediate medical attention if differing pupil size occurs along
with:

      * Blurred vision
      * Double vision
      * Eye sensitivity to light
      * Fever
      * Headache
      * Loss of vision
      * Nausea or vomiting
      * Eye pain
      * Stiff neck 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions about your
symptoms and medical history, including:

      * Is this new for you or have your pupils ever been different sizes before? When did it start?
      * Do you have other vision problems such as blurred vision, double vision, or light sensitivity?
      * Do you have any loss of vision?
      * Do you have eye pain?
      * Do you have other symptoms such as headache, nausea, vomiting, fever, or stiff neck?

Tests that may be done include:

      * Blood studies such as CBC and blood differential
      * Cerebrospinal fluid studies (lumbar puncture)
      * CT scan of the head
      * EEG
      * Head MRI scan
      * Tonometry (if glaucoma is suspected)
      * X-rays of the neck

Treatment depends on the cause of the problem.

## Alternative Names

Enlargement of one pupil; Pupils of different size; Eyes/pupils different size

## Images

      * ![Normal pupil](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9312t.jpg)Normal pupil

## References

Baloh RW, Jen JC. Neuro-ophthalmology. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 396.

Cheng KP. Ophthalmology. In: Zitelli, BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds.
_Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 20.

Thurtell MJ, Rucker JC. Pupillary and eyelid abnormalities. In: Daroff RB,
Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical
Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 18.

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, FAAN, Attending Neurologist and
Assistant Professor of Clinical Neurology, Stony Brook University School of
Medicine, Stony Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eye Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeDiseases_thumb.jpg)Eye
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

