Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000595.htm    
                                Description: Choroidal dystrophy is an eye disorder that involves a layer of blood vessels called the choroid. These vessels are between the sclera and retina.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Choroidal dystrophies

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000595.htm

# Choroidal dystrophies

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Choroidal dystrophy is an eye disorder that involves a layer of blood vessels
called the choroid. These vessels are between the sclera and retina.

In most cases, choroidal dystrophy is due to an abnormal gene, which is passed
down through families. It most often affects males, starting in childhood.

The first symptoms are peripheral vision loss and vision loss at night. An eye
surgeon who specializes in the retina (back of the eye) can diagnose this
disorder.

## Exams and Tests

The following tests may be needed to diagnose the condition:

      * Electroretinography
      * Fluorescein angiography
      * Genetic testing

## Alternative Names

Choroideremia; Gyrate atrophy; Central areolar choroidal dystrophy

## Images

      * ![External and internal eye anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8867t.jpg)External and internal eye anatomy

## References

Freund KB, Sarraf D, Mieler WF, Yannuzzi LA. Hereditary chorioretinal
dystrophies. In: Freund KB, Sarraf D, Mieler WF, Yannuzzi LA, eds. _The
Retinal Atlas_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 2.

Grover S, Fishman GA, Ganead MA. Choroidal dystrophies. In: Yanoff M, Duker
JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 6.15.

Klufas MA, Kiss S. Wide-field imaging. In: Schachat AP, Sadda SVR, Hinton DR,
Wilkinson CP, Wiedemann P, eds. _Ryan's Retina_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 5.

Noble KG. Fluorescein angiography of the hereditary chorioretinal dystrophies.
In: Tasman W, Jaeger EA, eds. _Duane's Foundations of Clinical Ophthalmology_.
2013 ed. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; 2013: vol 2, chap
113B.

## Review Date 12/2/2017

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eye Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeDiseases_thumb.jpg)Eye
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

