Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003318.htm    
                                Description: Coloboma of the iris is a hole or defect of the iris of the eye. Most colobomas are present since birth (congenital).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Coloboma of the iris

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003318.htm

# Coloboma of the iris

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Coloboma of the iris is a hole or defect of the iris of the eye. Most
colobomas are present since birth (congenital).

## Considerations

Coloboma of the iris can look like a second pupil or a black notch at the edge
of the pupil. This gives the pupil an irregular shape. It can also appear as a
split in the iris from the pupil to the edge of the iris.

A small coloboma (especially if it is not attached to the pupil) may allow a
second image to focus on the back of the eye. This may cause:

      * Blurred vision
      * Decreased visual acuity
      * Double vision
      * Ghost image 

If it is congenital, the defect may include the retina, choroid, or optic
nerve.

Most colobomas are diagnosed at birth or shortly afterward.

## Causes

Coloboma can occur due to:

      * Eye surgery 
      * Inherited conditions 
      * Trauma to the eye 

Most cases of coloboma have no known cause and are not related to other
abnormalities. Some are due to a specific genetic defect. A small number of
people with coloboma have other inherited developmental problems.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your health care provider if:

      * You notice that your child has what appears to be a hole in the iris or an unusual-shaped pupil.
      * Your child's vision becomes blurred or decreased. 

In addition to your child, you may also need to see an eye specialist
(ophthalmologist).

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will take a medical history and do an exam.

Since the problem is most often diagnosed in infants, knowing about the family
history is very important.

The provider will do a detailed eye exam that includes looking into the back
of the eye while the eye is dilated. An MRI of the brain, eyes, and connecting
nerves may be done if other problems are suspected.

## Alternative Names

Keyhole pupil; Iris defect

## Images

      * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye
      * ![Cat eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1130t.jpg)Cat eye
      * ![Coloboma of the iris](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8750t.jpg)Coloboma of the iris

## References

Brodsky MC. Congenital optic disc anomalies. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds.
_Ophthalmology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 9.5.

Freund KB, Sarraf D, Mieler WF, Yannuzzi LA. Congenital and developmental
anomalies of the optic nerve. In: Freund KB, Sarraf D, Mieler WF, Yannuzzi LA,
eds. _The Retinal Atlas_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 15.

National Eye Institute website. Coloboma. www.nei.nih.gov/learn-about-eye-
health/eye-conditions-and-diseases/coloboma. Updated August 2019. Accessed
September 16, 2019.

Olitsky SE, Hug D, Plummer LS, Stahl ED, Ariss MM, Lindquist TP. Abnormalities
of pupil and iris. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds.
_Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 622.

## Review Date 12/2/2017

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update
09/16/2019.

![Eye Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeDiseases_thumb.jpg)Eye
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

