Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000096.htm    
                                Description: Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) is a minimally invasive procedure to open up blocked coronary arteries, allowing blood to circulate unobstructed to the heart muscle.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Videos & Tools ->

Health Videos ->

Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000096.htm

# Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Play health video: //medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200140_eng.mp4

What's this?Play health video with audio description:
//medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200140_eng_ad.mp4

## Overview

Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) is a minimally invasive
procedure to open up blocked coronary arteries, allowing blood to circulate
unobstructed to the heart muscle.

The procedure begins with the doctor injecting some local anesthesia into the
groin area and putting a needle into the femoral artery, the blood vessel that
runs down the leg. A guide wire is placed through the needle and the needle is
removed. An introducer is then placed over the guide wire, after which the
wire is removed. A different sized guide wire is put in its place.

Next, a long narrow tube called a diagnostic catheter is advanced through the
introducer over the guide wire, into the blood vessel. This catheter is then
guided to the aorta and the guide wire is removed. Once the catheter is placed
in the opening or ostium of one the coronary arteries, the doctor injects dye
and takes an x-ray.

If a treatable blockage is noted, the first catheter is exchanged for a
guiding catheter. Once the guiding catheter is in place, a guide wire is
advanced across the blockage, then a balloon catheter is advanced to the
blockage site. The balloon is inflated for a few seconds to compress the
blockage against the artery wall. Then the balloon is deflated.

The doctor may repeat this a few times, each time pumping up the balloon a
little more to widen the passage for the blood to flow through. This treatment
may be repeated at each blocked site in the coronary arteries. A device called
a stent may be placed within the coronary artery to keep the vessel open. Once
the compression has been performed, contrast media is injected and an x-ray is
taken to check for any change in the arteries. Following this, the catheter is
removed and the procedure is completed.

## Review Date 5/10/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Angioplasty

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

