Link: https://medlineplus.gov/zikavirus.html    
                                Description: Zika is a virus that is spread by mosquitoes. Most people who get the virus do not get sick. A blood test can tell if you have Zika.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Zika Virus

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/zikavirus.html

#  Zika Virus

Also called: Zika

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Symptoms
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * No links available

### For You

    * Children
    * Men
    * Women
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Zika is a virus that is spread mostly by mosquitoes. A pregnant mother can
pass it to her baby during pregnancy or around the time of birth. It can
spread through sexual contact. There have also been reports that the virus has
spread through blood transfusions. There have been outbreaks of Zika virus in
the United States, Africa, Southeast Asia, the Pacific Islands, parts of the
Caribbean, and Central and South America.

Most people who get the virus do not get sick. One in five people do get
symptoms, which can include a fever, rash, joint pain, and conjunctivitis
(pinkeye). Symptoms are usually mild, and start 2 to 7 days after being bitten
by an infected mosquito.

A blood test can tell whether you have the infection. There are no vaccines or
medicines to treat it. Drinking lots of fluids, resting, and taking
acetaminophen might help.

Zika can cause microcephaly (a serious birth defect of the brain) and other
problems in babies whose mothers were infected while pregnant. The Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention recommends that pregnant women do not travel to
areas where there is a Zika virus outbreak. If you do decide to travel, first
talk to your doctor. You should also be careful to prevent mosquito bites:

    * Use insect repellent
    * Wear clothes that cover your arms, legs, and feet
    * Stay in places that have air conditioning or that use window and door screens

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Start Here

    * Zika Virus (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Zika Virus Disease (World Health Organization)
    * Zika Virus Fact Sheet (World Health Organization) Also in Spanish

## Symptoms

    * Symptoms of Zika (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Zika Testing and Follow-Up (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF
    * Zika Virus Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Find the Repellent that is Right for You (Environmental Protection Agency)
    * Help Control Mosquitoes that Spread Dengue, Chikungunya, and Zika Viruses (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Mosquito Bite Prevention For Travelers (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Zika - Sexual Transmission and Prevention (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Zika Treatment (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * CDC's Response to Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation ![Infographic](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Infographic.gif) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF
    * Microcephaly and Other Birth Defects: Zika (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Plan for Travel: Before, During and After (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Zika and Guillain-BarrÃ© Syndrome (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Zika Travel Information (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Dispelling Rumours Around Zika and Complications (World Health Organization) Also in Spanish

## Videos and Tutorials

    * Zika Virus and Pregnancy ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Statistics and Research

    * Areas with Zika (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Zika Virus ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases)
    * Zika Virus: Protecting Pregnant Women and Babies (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Zika Virus ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Public Perception About the Zika Virus in Working Professionals: A Qualitative...
    * Article: Homologous prime-boost with Zika virus envelope protein and poly (I:C) induces...
    * Article: Solidarity, vulnerability and mistrust: how context, information and government affect the...
    * Zika Virus -- see more articles

## Children

    * Fact Sheet: What Parents Need to Know About Zika Virus (Administration for Children and Families)

## Men

    * For Men: A Positive Zika Virus Test, What Does It Mean for Me? (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF

## Women

    * 5 Things to Know About Zika and Pregnancy (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Zika virus disease (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Aedes aegypti mosquito](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Zika,WestNile.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Zika virus disease

## Related Health Topics

    * Mosquito Bites

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Zika Virus is the National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Zika Virus_

## NIH MedlinePlus Magazine

    * Progress Against Zika

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 30 January 2020 Topic last reviewed: 13 February 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

