Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001157.htm    
                                Description: Mesenteric venous thrombosis (MVT) is a blood clot in one or more of the major veins that drain blood from the intestine. The superior mesenteric vein is most commonly involved.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mesenteric venous thrombosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001157.htm

# Mesenteric venous thrombosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Mesenteric venous thrombosis (MVT) is a blood clot in one or more of the major
veins that drain blood from the intestine. The superior mesenteric vein is
most commonly involved.

## Causes

MVT is a clot that blocks blood flow in a mesenteric vein. There areÂ two such
veins through which blood leaves the intestine. The condition stops the blood
circulation of the intestine and can result in damage to the intestine.

The exact cause of MVT is unknown. However, there are many diseases that can
lead to MVT. Many of the diseases cause swelling (inflammation) of the tissues
surrounding the veins, and include:

      * Appendicitis
      * Cancer of the abdomen
      * Diverticulitis
      * Liver disease with cirrhosis
      * High blood pressure in the blood vessels of the liver
      * Abdominal surgery or trauma
      * Pancreatitis
      * Inflammatory bowel disorders
      * Heart failure
      * Protein C or S deficiencies
      * Polycythemia vera
      * Essential thrombocythemia

People who have disorders that make the blood more likely to stick together
(clot) have a higher risk for MVT. Birth control pills and estrogen medicines
also increase risk.

MVT is more common in men than women. It mainly affects middle aged or older
adults.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

      * Abdominal pain, which may get worse after eating and over time 
      * Bloating 
      * Constipation
      * Bloody diarrhea
      * Fever 
      * Septic shock
      * Lower gastrointestinal bleeding
      * Vomiting and nausea

## Exams and Tests

A CT scan is the main test used to diagnose MVT.

Other tests may include:

      * Angiogram (studying the blood flow to the intestine) 
      * MRI of the abdomen 
      * Ultrasound of the abdomen and mesenteric veins

## Treatment

Blood thinners (most commonly heparin or related medicines) are used to treat
MVT when there is no associated bleeding. In some cases, medicine can be
delivered directly into the clot to dissolve it. This procedure is called
thrombolysis.

Less often, the clot is removed with a type of surgery called thrombectomy.

If there are signs and symptoms of a severe infection called peritonitis,
surgery to remove the intestine is done. After surgery, an ileostomy (opening
from the small intestine into a bag on the skin) or colostomy (an opening from
the colon into the skin) may be needed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outlook depends on the cause of the thrombosis and any damage to the
intestine. Getting treatment for the cause before the intestine has died can
result in a good recovery.

## Possible Complications

Intestinal ischemia is a serious complication of MVT. Some or the entire
intestine dies because of poor blood supply.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have severe or repeated episodes of
abdominal pain.

## Alternative Names

MVT

## References

Brandt LJ, Feuerstadt P. Intestinal ischemia. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 118.

Cloud A, Dussel JN, Webster-Lake C, Indes J. Mesenteric ischemia. In: Yeo CJ,
ed. _Shackelford's Surgery of the Alimentary Tract_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 87.

Roline CE, Reardon RF. Disorders of the small intestine. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and
Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 82.

## Review Date 4/11/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Deep Vein
Thrombosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DeepVeinThrombosis_thumb.jpg)Deep
Vein Thrombosis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

