Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003773.htm    
                                Description: Venography for legs is a test used to see the veins in the leg.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Venogram - leg

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003773.htm

# Venogram - leg

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Venography for legs is a test used to see the veins in the leg.

X-rays are a form of electromagnetic radiation, like visible light is.
However, these rays are of higher energy. Therefore, they can go through the
body to form an image on film. Structures that are dense (such as bone) will
appear white, air will be black, and other structures will be shades of gray.

Veins are not normally seen in an x-ray, so a special dye is used to highlight
them. This dye is called contrast.

## How the Test is Performed

This test is usually done in a hospital. You will be asked to lie on an x-ray
table. A numbing medicine is applied to the area. You may ask for a sedative
if you are anxious about the test.

The health care provider places a needle into a vein in the foot of the leg
being looked at. An intravenousÂ (IV) line is inserted through the needle. The
contrast dye flows through this line into the vein. A tourniquet may be placed
on your leg so the dye flows into the deeper veins.

X-rays are taken as the dye flows through the leg.

The catheter is then removed, and the puncture site is bandaged.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You will wear hospital clothing during this procedure. You will be asked to
sign a consent form for the procedure. Remove all jewelry from the area being
imaged.

Tell the provider:

      * If you are pregnant
      * If you have allergies to any medicines
      * Which medicines you are taking (including any herbal preparations)
      * If you have ever had any allergic reactions to x-ray contrast material or iodine substance

## How the Test will Feel

The x-ray table is hard and cold. You may want to ask for a blanket or pillow.
You will feel a sharp poke when the intravenous catheter is inserted. As the
dye is injected, you may experience a burning sensation.

There may be tenderness and bruising at the site of the injection after the
test.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is used to identify and locate blood clots in the veins of the legs.

## Normal Results

Free flow of the blood through the vein is normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to a blockage. The blockage can be caused by:

      * Blood clot
      * Tumor
      * Inflammation

## Risks

Risks of this test are:

      * Allergic reaction to the contrast dye
      * Kidney failure, especially in the older adults or people with diabetes who take the medicine metformin (Glucophage)
      * Worsening of a clot in the leg vein

There is low radiation exposure. However, most experts feel that the risk of
most x-rays is smaller than other daily risks. Pregnant women and children are
more sensitive to the risks of the x-ray.

## Considerations

Ultrasound is used more often than this test because it has fewer risks and
side effects. MRI and CT scans may also be used to look at the veins in the
leg.

## Alternative Names

Phlebogram - leg; Venography - leg; Angiogram - leg

## Images

      * ![Leg venography](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9584t.jpg)Leg venography

## References

Ginsberg JS. Peripheral venous disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 81.

Pin RH, Ayad MT, Gillespie D. Venography. In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds.
_Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 26.

## Review Date 6/10/2018

Updated by: Deepak Sudheendra, MD, FSIR, RPVI, Assistant Professor of
Interventional Radiology & Surgery at the University of Pennsylvania Perelman
School of Medicine, with an expertise in Vascular Interventional Radiology &
Surgical Critical Care, Philadelphia, PA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Deep Vein
Thrombosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DeepVeinThrombosis_thumb.jpg)Deep
Vein Thrombosis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

