Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000156.htm    
                                Description: Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is a condition that occurs when a blood clot forms in a vein deep inside a part of the body. It mainly affects the large veins in the lower leg and thigh, but can occur in other    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Deep vein thrombosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000156.htm

# Deep vein thrombosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is a condition that occurs when a blood clot forms
in a vein deep inside a part of the body. It mainly affects the large veins in
the lower leg and thigh, but can occur in other deep veins, such as in the
arms and pelvis.

## Causes

DVT is most common in adults over age 60. But it can occur at any age. When a
clot breaks off and moves through the bloodstream,Â it is called an embolism.
An embolism can get stuck in the blood vessels in the brain, lungs, heart, or
another area, leading to severe damage.

Blood clotsÂ may form when something slows or changes the flow of blood in the
veins. Risk factors include:

      * A pacemaker catheter that has been passed through the vein in the groin
      * Bed rest or sitting in one position for too long, such as plane travel
      * Family history of blood clots
      * Fractures in the pelvis or legs
      * Giving birth within the last 6 months
      * Pregnancy
      * Obesity
      * Recent surgery (most commonly hip, knee, or female pelvic surgery)
      * Too many blood cells being made by the bone marrow, causing the blood to be thicker than normal (polycythemia vera)
      * Having an indwelling (long-term) catheter in a blood vessel

Blood is more likely to clot in someone who has certain problems or disorders,
such as:

      * Cancer
      * Certain autoimmune disorders, such as lupus
      * Cigarette smoking
      * Conditions that make it more likely to develop blood clots
      * Taking estrogens or birth control pills (this risk is even higher with smoking) 

Sitting for long periods when traveling can increase the risk for DVT. This is
most likely when you also have one or more of the risk factors listed above.

## Symptoms

DVT mainly affects the large veins in the lower leg and thigh, most often on
one side of the body. The clot can block blood flow and cause:

      * Changes in skin color (redness)
      * Leg pain
      * Leg swelling (edema)
      * Skin that feels warm to the touch

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical exam. The exam may show a
red, swollen, or tender leg.

The two tests that are often done first to diagnose a DVT are:

      * D-dimer blood test
      * Doppler ultrasound exam of the area of concern

A pelvic MRI may be done if the blood clot is in the pelvis, such as after
pregnancy.

Blood tests may be done to check if you have an increased chance of blood
clotting, including:

      * Activated protein C resistance (checks for the Factor V Leiden mutation)
      * Antithrombin III levels
      * Antiphospholipid antibodies
      * Complete blood count (CBC)
      * Genetic testing to look for mutations that make you more likely to develop blood clots, such as the prothrombin G20210A mutation
      * Lupus anticoagulant
      * Protein C and protein S levels 

## Treatment

Your provider will give you medicine to thin your blood (called an
anticoagulant). This will keep more clots from forming or old ones from
getting bigger.

Heparin is often the first medicine you will receive.

      * If heparin is given through a vein (IV), you must stay in the hospital.Â However, most people can be treated without staying in the hospital.
      * Low molecular weight heparin can be given by injection under your skin once or twice a day. You may not need to stay in the hospital as long, or at all, if you are prescribed this type of heparin.

One type of blood-thinning medicine called warfarin (Coumadin or Jantoven) is
often started along with heparin. Warfarin is taken by mouth. It takes several
days to fully work.

Another class of blood thinners works differently than warfarin. Examples of
this class of medicines include rivaroxaban (Xarelto), apixaban (Eliquis),
dabigatran (Pradax), and edoxaban (Savaysa). These drugs work in a similar way
to heparin and can be used right away in place of heparin. Your provider will
decide which medicine is right for you.

You will most likely take a blood thinner for at least 3 months. Some people
take it longer, or even for the rest of their lives, depending on their risk
for another clot.

When you are taking a blood thinning medicine, you are more likely to bleed,
even from activities you have always done. If you are taking a blood thinner
at home:

      * Take the medicine just the way your provider prescribed it.
      * Ask the provider what to do if you miss a dose.
      * Get blood tests as advised by your provider to make sure you are taking the right dose. These tests are usually needed with warfarin.
      * Learn how to take other medicines and when to eat.
      * Find out how to watch for problems caused by the medicine. 

You may be advised to wear a pressure (compression) stocking on your leg or
legs. A pressure stocking improves blood flow in your legs and reduces your
risk for complications from blood clots. In rare cases, you may need surgery
if medicines do not work. Surgery may involve:

      * Placing a filter in the body's largest vein to prevent blood clots from traveling to the lungs
      * Removing a large blood clot from the vein or injecting clot-busting medicines 

Follow any other instructions you are given to treat your DVT.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

DVT often goes away without a problem, but the condition can return. The
symptoms can appear right away or you may not develop them for 1 or more years
afterward. Wearing compression stockings during and after the DVT may help
prevent this problem.

## Possible Complications

Complications of DVT may include:

      * Fatal pulmonary embolism (blood clots in the thigh are more likely to break off and travel to the lungs than blood clots in the lower leg or other parts of the body)
      * Constant pain and swelling (post-phlebitic syndrome)
      * Varicose veins
      * Non-healing ulcers (less common)
      * Changes in skin color

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of DVT.

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you have DVT and you develop:

      * Chest pain
      * Coughing up blood
      * Difficulty breathing
      * Fainting
      * Loss of consciousness
      * Other severe symptoms

## Prevention

To prevent DVT:

      * Wear the pressure stockings your provider prescribed.
      * Moving your legs often during long plane trips, car trips, and other situations in which you are sitting or lying down for long periods.
      * Take blood-thinning medicines your provider prescribes.
      * DO NOT smoke. Talk to your provider if you need help quitting.

## Alternative Names

DVT; Blood clot in the legs; Thromboembolism; Post-phlebitic syndrome; Post-
thrombotic syndrome; Venous - DVT

## Patient Instructions

      * Deep vein thrombosis - discharge
      * Taking warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven) - what to ask your doctor
      * Taking warfarin (Coumadin)

## Images

      * ![Deep venous thrombosis - iliofemoral](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2549t.jpg)Deep venous thrombosis - iliofemoral
      * ![Deep veins](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8733t.jpg)Deep veins
      * ![Venous blood clot](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8984t.jpg)Venous blood clot
      * ![Deep veins](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9059t.jpg)Deep veins
      * ![Venous thrombosis - series - Normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/15899t.jpg)Venous thrombosis - series

## References

Kearon C, Akl EA, Ornelas J, et al. Antithrombotic therapy for VTE disease:
CHEST guideline and expert panel report. _Chest_. 2016;149(2):315-352. PMID:
26867832 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26867832.

Kline JA. Pulmonary embolism and deep vein thrombosis. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and
Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 78.

Lockhart ME, Umphrey HR, Weber TM, Robbin ML. Peripheral vessels. In: Rumack
CM, Levine D, eds. _Diagnostic Ultrasound_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 27.

Siegal D, Lim W. Venous thromboembolism. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein
LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 142.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Internal review and update on
04/15/2019 David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Deep Vein
Thrombosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DeepVeinThrombosis_thumb.jpg)Deep
Vein Thrombosis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

