Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001551.htm    
                                Description: Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a problemÂ caused by the presence of one or more of these findings: not being able to focus, being overactive, or not being able to control behavior.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001551.htm

# Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a problemÂ caused by the
presence of one or more of these findings: not being able to focus, being
overactive, or not being able to control behavior.

## Causes

ADHD often begins in childhood. But it may continue into the adult years. ADHD
is diagnosed more often in boys than in girls.

It is not clear what causes ADHD. It may be linked to genes and home or social
factors. Experts have found that the brains of children with ADHD are
different from those of children without ADHD. Brain chemicals are also
different.

## Symptoms

ADHD symptoms fall into three groups:

      * Not being able to focus (inattentiveness)
      * Being extremely active (hyperactivity)
      * Not being able to control behavior (impulsivity)

Some people with ADHD have mainly inattentive symptoms. Some have mainly
hyperactive and impulsive symptoms. Others have a combination of these
behaviors.

INATTENTIVE SYMPTOMS

      * Doesn't pay attention to details or makes careless mistakes in schoolwork
      * Has problems focusing during tasks or play
      * Doesn't listen when spoken to directly
      * Doesn't follow through on instructions and doesn't finish schoolwork or chores
      * Has problems organizing tasks and activities
      * Avoids or doesn't like tasks that require mental effort (such as schoolwork)
      * Often losesÂ things, such as homework or toys
      * Is easily distracted
      * Is often forgetful

HYPERACTIVITY SYMPTOMS

      * Fidgets or squirms in seat
      * Leaves their seat when theyÂ should stay in their seat
      * Runs about or climbs when they shouldn't be doing so
      * Has problems playing or working quietly
      * Is often "on the go," acts as if "driven by a motor"
      * Talks all the time

IMPULSIVITY SYMPTOMS

      * Blurts out answers before questions have been completed
      * Has problems awaiting their turn
      * Interrupts or intrudes on others (butts into conversations or games)

Many of the above findings are present in children as they grow. For these
problems to be diagnosed as ADHD, they must be out of the normal range for a
person's age and development.

## Exams and Tests

There is no test that can diagnose ADHD. Diagnosis is based on a pattern of
the symptoms listed above. When a child is suspected to have ADHD, parents and
teachers are often involved during the evaluation.

Most children with ADHD have at least one other developmental or mental health
problem. This may be a mood, anxiety, or substance use disorder. Or, it may be
a learning problem or a tic disorder.

## Treatment

Treating ADHD is a partnership between the health care provider and the person
with ADHD. If it's a child, parents and often teachers are involved. For
treatment to work, it is important to:

      * Set specific goals that are right for the child.
      * Start medicineÂ or talk therapy, or both.
      * Follow-up regularly with the doctor to check on goals, results, and any side effects of medicines.

If treatment does not seem to work, the provider will likely:

      * Confirm the person has ADHD.
      * Check for health problems that can cause similar symptoms.
      * Make sure the treatment plan is being followed.

MEDICINES

Medicine combined with behavioral treatment often works best. Different ADHD
medicines can be used alone or combined with each other. The doctor will
decide which medicine is right, based on the person's symptoms and needs.

Psychostimulants (also known as stimulants) are the most commonly used
medicines. Although these drugs are called stimulants, they actually have a
calming effect on people with ADHD.

Follow the provider's instructionsÂ about how to take ADHD medicine. The
provider needs to monitor if the medicine is working and if there are any
problems with it. So, be sure to keep all appointments with the provider.

Some ADHD medicines have side effects. If the person has side effects, contact
the provider right away. The dosage or medicine itself may need to be changed.

THERAPY

A common type of ADHD therapy is called behavioral therapy. It teaches
children and parents healthy behaviors and how to manage disruptive behaviors.
For mild ADHD, behavioral therapy alone (without medicine) may be effective.

Other tips to help a child with ADHD include:

      * Talk regularly with the child's teacher.
      * Keep a daily schedule, including regular times for homework, meals, and activities. Make changes to the schedule ahead of time and not at the last moment.
      * Limit distractions in the child's environment.
      * Make sure the child gets a healthy, varied diet, with plenty of fiber and basic nutrients.
      * Make sure the child gets enough sleep.
      * Praise and reward good behavior.
      * Provide clear and consistent rules for the child.

There is little proof that alternative treatments for ADHD such as herbs,
supplements, and chiropractic are helpful.  

## Support Groups

Resources for more information on ADHD include:

      * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention -- www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/adhd
      * Children and Adults with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (CHADD) -- www.chadd.org
      * National Center for Learning Disabilities (NCLD) -- www.ncld.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

ADHD is a long-term condition. ADHD may lead to:

      * Drug and alcohol use
      * Not doing well in school
      * Problems keeping a job
      * Trouble with the law

One third to one half of children with ADHD have symptoms of inattention or
hyperactivity-impulsivity as adults. Adults with ADHD are often able to
control behavior and mask problems.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call the doctor if you or your child's teachers suspect ADHD. You should also
tell the doctor about:

      * Problems at home, school, and with peers
      * Side effects of ADHD medicine
      * Signs of depression

## Alternative Names

ADD; ADHD; Childhood hyperkinesis

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder.
In: American Psychiatric Association. _Diagnostic and statistical manual of
mental disorders._ 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing.
2013:59-66.

Prince JB, Wilens TE, Spencer TJ, Biederman J. Pharmacotherapy of attention-
deficit/hyperactivity disorder across the lifespan. In: Stern TA, Fava M,
Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive
Clinical Psychiatry._ 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 49.

Sprich SE, Safren SA, Finkelstein D, Remmert JE, Hammerness P. A randomized
controlled trial of cognitive behavioral therapy for ADHD in medication-
treated adolescents. _J Child Psychol Psychiatry._ 2016;57(11):1218-1226.
PMID: 26990084 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26990084.

Urion DK. Attention-deficity/hyperactivity disorder. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics._ 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 33.

## Review Date 3/26/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Attention Deficit Hyperactivity
Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AttentionDeficitHyperactivityDisorder_thumb.jpg)Attention
Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

