Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003256.htm    
                                Description: Hyperactivity means having increased movement, impulsive actions, and a shorter attention span, and being easily distracted.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hyperactivity

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003256.htm

# Hyperactivity

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hyperactivity means having increased movement, impulsive actions, and a
shorter attention span, and being easily distracted.

## Considerations

Hyperactive behavior usually refers to constant activity, being easily
distracted, impulsiveness, inability to concentrate, aggressiveness, and
similar behaviors.

Typical behaviors may include:

      * Fidgeting or constant moving
      * Wandering
      * Talking too much
      * Difficulty participating in quiet activities (such as reading) 

Hyperactivity is not easily defined. It often depends on the observer.
Behavior that seems excessive toÂ one person may not seem excessive to
another. But certain children, when compared to others, are clearly far more
active. This can become a problem if it interferes with school work or making
friends.

Hyperactivity is often considered more of a problem for schools and parents
than it is for the child. But many hyperactive children are unhappy, or even
depressed. Hyperactive behavior may make a child a target for bullying, or
make it harder to connect with other children. Schoolwork may be more
difficult. Kids who are hyperactive are frequently punished for their
behavior.

Excessive movement (hyperkineticÂ behavior) often decreases as the child grows
older. It may disappear entirely by adolescence.

## Causes

Conditions that may lead to hyperactivity include:

      * Attention deficit hyperactivityÂ disorder (ADHD)
      * Brain or central nervous system disorders
      * Emotional disorders
      * Over-active thyroid (hyperthyroidism)

## Home Care

A child who is normally very active often responds well to specific directions
and a program of regular physical activity. But, a child with a ADHD has a
hard time following directions and controlling impulses.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your child's health care provider if:

      * Your child seems hyperactive all the time.
      * Your child is very active, aggressive, impulsive, and has difficulty concentrating.
      * Your child's activity level is causing social difficulties, or difficulty with schoolwork.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam of your child and ask about your
child's symptoms and medical history. Examples of questions include whether
the behavior is new, if your child has always been very active, and whether
the behavior is getting worse.

The provider may recommend a psychological evaluation.Â There may also be a
review of the home and school environments.

## Alternative Names

Activity - increased; Hyperkinetic behavior

## Images

      * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Bostic JQ, Prince JB, Buxton DC. Child and adolescent psychiatric disorders.
In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General
Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 69.

Walter HJ, DeMaso DR. Assessment and interviewing. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 20.

## Review Date 5/20/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Attention Deficit Hyperactivity
Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AttentionDeficitHyperactivityDisorder_thumb.jpg)Attention
Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

