Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000552.htm    
                                Description: The 5 bones in your hand that connect your wrist to your thumb and fingers are called the metacarpal bones.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hand fracture - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000552.htm

# Hand fracture - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The 5 bones in your hand that connect your wrist to your thumb and fingers are
called the metacarpal bones.

You have a fracture (break) in one or more of these bones. This is called a
hand (or metacarpal) fracture. Some hand fractures require wearing a splint or
a cast. Some need to be repaired with surgery.

## Types of Hand Fractures

Your fracture may be in one of the following areas on your hand:

      * On your knuckle
      * Just below your knuckle (sometimes called a boxer's fracture)
      * In the shaft or middle part of the bone
      * At the base of the bone, near your wrist
      * A displaced fracture (this means part of the bone is not in its normal position) 

If you have a bad break, you may be referred to a bone doctor (orthopedic
surgeon). You may need surgery to insert pins and plates to repair the
fracture.

## What to Expect

You will likely have to wear a splint. The splint will cover part of your
fingers and both sides of your hand and wrist. Your health care provider will
tell you how long you need to wear the splint. Usually, it is for about 3
weeks.

If you had surgery, you may have a cast instead of a splint.

Most fractures heal well. After healing, your knuckle may look different or
your finger may move in a different way when you close your hand.

Some fractures require surgery. You will likely be referred to an orthopedic
surgeon if:

      * Your metacarpal bones are broken and shifted out of place
      * Your fingers do not line up correctly
      * Your fracture nearly went through the skin
      * Your fracture went through the skin
      * Your pain is severe or becoming worse 

## Self-care at Home

You may have pain and swelling for 1 or 2 weeks. To reduce this:

      * Apply an ice pack to the injured area of your hand. To prevent skin injury from the coldness of the ice, wrap the ice pack in a clean cloth before applying.
      * Keep your hand raised above your heart.

For pain, you can take ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn),
aspirin, or acetaminophen (Tylenol). You can buy these pain medicines without
a prescription.

      * Talk with your provider before using these medicines if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, or have had stomach ulcers or internal bleeding in the past.
      * DO NOT take more than the amount recommended on the bottle or by your provider.
      * DO NOT give aspirin to children.

Follow your provider's instructions about wearing your splint. Your provider
will tell you when you can:

      * Start moving your fingers around more while wearing your splint
      * Remove your splint to take a shower or bath
      * Remove your splint and use your hand

Keep your splint or cast dry. For example, when you shower, wrap the splint or
cast in a plastic bag.

## Follow-up

You will likely have a follow-up exam 1 to 3 weeks after your injury. For
severe fractures, you may need physical therapy after your splint or cast is
removed.

You can usually return to work or sports activities about 6 to 8 weeks after
the fracture. Your provider or therapist will tell you when.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if your hand is:

      * Tight and painful
      * Tingly or numb
      * Red, swollen, or has an open sore
      * Hard to open and close after your splint or cast is removed 

Also call your provider if your cast is falling apart or putting pressure on
your skin.

## Alternative Names

Boxer's fracture - aftercare; Metacarpal fracture - aftercare

## References

Day CS. Fractures of the metacarpals and phalanges. In: Wolfe SW, Hotchkiss
RN, Pederson WC, Kozin SH, Cohen MS, eds. _Green's Operative Hand Surgery_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 7.

Ruchelsman DE, Bindra RR. Fractures and dislocations of the hand. In: Browner
BD, Jupiter JB, Krettek C, Anderson PA, eds. _Skeletal Trauma: Basic Science,
Management, and Reconstruction_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 42.

## Review Date 4/9/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Hand Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

