Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000789.htm    
                                Description: Ulnar nerve dysfunction is a problem with the nerve that travels from the shoulder to the hand, called the ulnar nerve. It helps you move your arm, wrist, and hand.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ulnar nerve dysfunction

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000789.htm

# Ulnar nerve dysfunction

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ulnar nerve dysfunction is a problem with the nerve that travels from the
shoulder to the hand, called the ulnar nerve. It helps you move your arm,
wrist, and hand.

## Causes

Damage to one nerve group, such as the ulnar nerve, is called mononeuropathy.
Mononeuropathy means there is damage to a single nerve. Diseases affecting the
entire body (systemic disorders) can also cause isolated nerve damage.

Causes of mononeuropathy include:

      * An illness in the whole body that damages a single nerve
      * Direct injury to the nerve
      * Long-term pressure on the nerve
      * Pressure on the nerve caused by swelling or injury of nearby body structures 

Ulnar neuropathy is also common in those with diabetes.

Ulnar neuropathy occurs when there is damage to the ulnar nerve. This nerve
travels down the arm to the wrist, hand, and ring and little fingers. It
passes near the surface of the elbow. So, bumping the nerve there causes the
pain and tingling of "hitting the funny bone."

When the nerve compressed in the elbow, a problem called cubital tunnel
syndrome may result.

When damage destroys the nerve covering (myelin sheath) or part of the nerve
itself, nerve signaling is slowed or prevented.

Damage to the ulnar nerve can be caused by:

      * Long-term pressure on the elbow or base of the palm
      * An elbow fracture or dislocation
      * Repeated elbow bending, such as with cigarette smoking 

In some cases, no cause can be found.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

      * Abnormal sensations in the little finger and part of the ring finger, usually on the palm side
      * Weakness, loss of coordination of the fingers
      * Clawlike deformity of the hand and wrist
      * Pain, numbness, decreased sensation, tingling, or burning sensation in the areas controlled by the nerve

Pain or numbness may awaken you from sleep. Activities such as tennis or golf
may make the condition worse.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you and ask about your symptoms and
medical history. You may be asked what you were doing before the symptoms
started.

Tests that may be needed include:

      * Blood tests
      * Imaging tests, such as MRI to view the nerve and nearby structures
      * Nerve conduction tests to check how fast nerve signals travel
      * Electromyography (EMG) to check the health of the ulnar nerve and the muscles it controls
      * Nerve biopsy to examine a piece of nerve tissue (rarely needed) 

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to allow you to use the hand and arm as much as
possible. Your provider will find and treat the cause, if possible. Sometimes,
no treatment is needed and you will get better on your own.

If medicines are needed, they may include:

      * Over-the-counter or prescription medicinesÂ (such as gabapentin and pregabalin)
      * Corticosteroid injections around the nerve to reduce swelling and pressure

Your provider will likely suggest self-care measures. These may include:

      * A supportive splint at either the wrist or elbow to help prevent further injury and relieve the symptoms. You may need to wear it all day and night, or only at night.
      * An elbow pad if the ulnar nerve is injured at the elbow. Also, avoid bumping or leaning on the elbow.
      * Physical therapy exercises to help maintain muscle strength in the arm.

Occupational therapy or counseling to suggest changes in the workplace may be
needed.

Surgery to relieve pressure on the nerve may help if the symptoms get worse,
or if there is proof that part of the nerve is wasting away.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If the cause of the nerve dysfunction can be found and successfully treated,
there is a good chance of a full recovery. In some cases, there may be partial
or complete loss of movement or sensation.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Deformity of the hand
      * Partial or complete loss of sensation in the hand or fingers
      * Partial or complete loss of wrist or hand movement
      * Recurrent or unnoticed injury to the hand

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have an arm injury and develop numbness, tingling,
pain, or weakness down your forearm and the ring and little fingers.

## Prevention

Avoid prolonged pressure on the elbow or palm. Avoid prolonged or repeated
elbow bending. Casts, splints, and other appliances should always be examined
for proper fit.

## Alternative Names

Neuropathy - ulnar nerve; Ulnar nerve palsy; Mononeuropathy; Cubital tunnel
syndrome

## Images

      * ![Ulnar nerve damage](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9992t.jpg)Ulnar nerve damage

## References

Craig A, Richardson JK, Ayyangar R. Rehabilitation of patients with
neuropathies. In: Cifu DX, ed. _Braddom's Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 41.

Jobe MT, Martinez SF. Peripheral nerve injuries. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale
ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 62.

Mackinnon SE, Novak CB. Compression neuropathies. In: Wolfe SW, Hotchkiss RN,
Pederson WC, Kozin SH, Cohen MS, eds. _Green's Operative Hand Surgery_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 28.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hand Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HandInjuries_thumb.jpg)Hand Injuries
and Disorders _Read more_

![Peripheral Nerve
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeripheralNerveDisorders_thumb.jpg)Peripheral
Nerve Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

