Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003290.htm    
                                Description: A single palmar crease is a single line that runs across the palm of the hand. People most often have 3 creases in their palms.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Single palmar crease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003290.htm

# Single palmar crease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A single palmar crease is a single line that runs across the palm of the hand.
People most often have 3 creases in their palms.

The crease is most often referred to as a single palmar crease. The older term
"simian crease" is not used much anymore, since it tends to have a negative
meaning (The word "simian" refers to a monkey or ape).

## Considerations

Distinct lines that form creases appear on the palms of the hands and soles of
the feet. The palm has 3 of these creases in most cases. But sometimes, the
creases join to form just one.

Palmar creases develop while a baby is growing in the womb, most often by the
12th week of gestation.

A single palmar crease appears in about 1 out of 30 people. Males are twice as
likely as females to have this condition. Some single palmar creases may
indicate problems with development and be linked with certain disorders.

## Causes

Having a single palmar crease is often normal. However, it may also be
associated with various conditions that affect a person's mental and physical
growth, including:

      * Down syndrome
      * Aarskog syndrome
      * Cohen syndrome
      * Fetal alcohol syndrome
      * Trisomy 13
      * Rubella syndrome
      * Turner syndrome
      * Klinefelter syndrome
      * PseudohypoparathyroidismÂ 
      * Cri du chat syndrome

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

An infant with a single palmar crease may have other symptoms and signs that,
when taken together, define a specific syndrome or condition. Diagnosis of
that condition is based on a family history, medical history, and complete
physical exam.

Your health care provider may ask questions such as:

      * Is there a family history of Down syndrome or other disorder associated with a single palmar crease?
      * Does anyone else in the family have a single palmar crease without other symptoms?
      * Did the mother use alcohol while pregnant?
      * What other symptoms are present? 

Based on the answers to these questions, the medical history, and the results
of the physical exam, further testing may be necessary.

## Alternative Names

Transverse palmar crease; Palmar crease; Simian crease

## Images

      * ![Single palmar crease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17226t.jpg)Single palmar crease

## References

Nussbaum RL, McInnes RR, Willard HF. The chromosomal and genomic basis of
disease: disorders of the autosomes and sex chromosomes. In: Nussbaum RL,
McInnes RR, Willard HF, eds. _Thompson and Thompson Genetics in Medicine_. 8th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 6.

Peroutka C. Genetics: metabolism and dysmorphology. In: Johns Hopkins
Hospital, The; Hughes HK, Kahl LK, eds. _The Harriet Lane Handbook._ Â 21st
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 13.

Slavotinek AM. Dysmorphology. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 128.

## Review Date 5/17/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hand Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HandInjuries_thumb.jpg)Hand Injuries
and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

