Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001014.htm    
                                Description: Amblyopia is the loss of the ability to see clearly through one eye. It is also called &quot;lazy eye.&quot; It is the most common cause of vision problems in children.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Amblyopia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001014.htm

# Amblyopia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Amblyopia is the loss of the ability to see clearly through one eye. It is
also called "lazy eye." It is the most common cause of vision problems in
children.

## Causes

Amblyopia occurs when the nerve pathway from one eye to the brain does not
develop during childhood. This problem develops because the abnormal eye sends
a blurred image or the wrong image to the brain.

This confuses the brain, and the brain may learn to ignore the image from the
weaker eye.

Strabismus (crossed eyes) is the most common cause of amblyopia. There is
often a family history of this condition.

The term "lazy eye" refers to amblyopia, which often occurs along with
strabismus. However, amblyopia can occur without strabismus. Also, people can
have strabismus without amblyopia.

Other causes include:

      * Childhood cataracts
      * Farsightedness, nearsightedness, or astigmatism, especially if it is greater in one eye 

## Symptoms

Symptoms of the condition include:

      * Eyes that turn in or out
      * Eyes that do not appear to work together
      * Inability to judge depth correctly
      * Poor vision in one eye 

## Exams and Tests

In most cases, amblyopia can be detected with a complete eye exam. Special
tests are not often needed.

## Treatment

The first step will be to correct any eye condition that is causing poor
vision in the amblyopic eye (such as cataracts).

Children with a refractive error (nearsightedness, farsightedness, or
astigmatism) will need glasses.

Next, a patch is placed on the normal eye. This forces the brain to recognize
the image from the eye with amblyopia. Sometimes, drops are used to blur the
vision of the normal eye instead of putting a patch on it. Newer techniques
use computer technology, to show a slightly different image to each eye. Over
time, the vision between the eyes becomes equalized.

Children whose vision will not fully recover, and those with only one good eye
due to any disorder should wear glasses. These glasses should be shatter- and
scratch-resistant.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Children who get treated before age 5 almost always recover vision that is
close to normal. However, they may continue to have problems with depth
perception.

Permanent vision problems may result if treatment is delayed. Children treated
after age 10 can expect vision to recover only partially.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Eye muscle problems that may require several surgeries
      * Permanent vision loss in the affected eye

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider or ophthalmologist if you suspect a vision
problem in a young child.

## Prevention

Identifying and treating the problem early prevents children from having
permanent visual loss. All children should have a complete eye exam at least
once between ages 3 and 5.

Special methods are used to measure vision in a child who is too young to
speak. Most eye care professionals can perform these techniques.

## Alternative Names

Lazy eye; Vision loss - amblyopia

## Images

      * ![Visual acuity test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1124t.jpg)Visual acuity test
      * ![Walleyes](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1125t.jpg)Walleyes

## References

Diamond GR, Shah RM. Amblyopia. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_.
4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 11.12.

Kraus CL, Culican SM. New advances in amblyopia therapy I: binocular therapies
and pharmacologic augmentation. _B J Ophthalmol_. 2018 [Epub ahead of print]
PMID: 29777043 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29777043.

Olitsky SE, Hug D, Plummer LS, Stahl ED, Ariss MM, Lindquist TP. Disorders of
eye movement and alignment. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 623.

Repka MX. Amblyopia: basics, questions, and practical management. In: Lambert
SR, Lyons CJ, eds. _Taylor & Hoyt's Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus_.
5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 73.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Amblyopia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Amblyopia_thumb.jpg)Amblyopia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

