Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000046.htm    
                                Description: &quot;Near drowning&quot; means a person almost died from not being able to breathe (suffocating) under water.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Near drowning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000046.htm

# Near drowning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

"Near drowning" means a person almost died from not being able to breathe
(suffocating) under water.

If a person has been rescued from a near-drowning situation, quick first aid
and medical attention are very important.

## Considerations

      * Thousands of people drown in the United States each year. Most drownings occur within a short distance of safety. Immediate action and first aid can prevent death.
      * A person who is drowning usually can't shout for help. Be alert for signs of drowning.
      * Most drownings in children younger than one year occur in the bathtub.
      * It may be possible to revive a drowning person, even after a long period under water, especially if the person is young and was in very cold water.
      * Suspect an accident if you see someone in the water fully clothed. Watch for uneven swimming motions, which is a sign that the swimmer is getting tired. Often, the body sinks, and only the head shows above the water. 

## Causes

      * Attempted suicide
      * Blows to the head or seizures while in the water
      * Drinking alcohol or using other drugs while boating or swimming
      * Falling through thin ice
      * Inability to swim or panicking while swimming
      * Swimming in water that is too deep, rough, or turbulent
      * Attempting to swim too far
      * Leaving small children unattended around bathtubs or pools 

## Symptoms

Symptoms can vary, but may include:

      * Abdominal distention (swollen belly)
      * Bluish skin of the face, especially around the lips
      * Chest pain
      * Cold skin and pale appearance
      * Confusion
      * Cough with pink, frothy sputum
      * Irritability
      * Lethargy
      * No breathing
      * Restlessness
      * Shallow or gasping respirations
      * Unconsciousness
      * Vomiting

## First Aid

When someone is drowning:

      * DO NOT place yourself in danger.
      * DO NOT get into the water or go out onto ice unless you are absolutely sure it is safe.
      * Extend a long pole or branch to the person or use a throw rope attached to a buoyant object, such as a life ring or life jacket. Toss it to the person, then pull them to shore.
      * If you are trained in rescuing people, do so right away only if you are absolutely sure it will not cause you harm.
      * Keep in mind that people who have fallen through ice may not be able to grasp objects within their reach or hold on while being pulled to safety. 

If the person's breathing has stopped, begin rescue breathing as soon as you
can. This often means starting the rescue breathing process as soon as the
rescuer can get to a flotation device such as a boat, raft, or surf board, or
reaches water where it is shallow enough to stand.

Continue to breathe for the person every few seconds while moving him or her
to dry land. Once on land, give CPR as needed. A person needs CPR if they are
unconscious and you can't feel a pulse.

Always use caution when moving a person who is drowning. Neck injuries are
uncommon in people who survive near drowning unless they have been struck in
the head or show other signs of injury, such as bleeding and cuts. Because of
this, the American Heart Association guidelines recommend against immobilizing
the spine unless there are obvious head injuries. Doing so can make it more
difficult to perform rescue breathing on the victim. However, you should try
to keep the person's head and neck stable and aligned with the body as much as
possible during the rescue from the water and CPR. You can tape the head to a
backboard or stretcher, or secure the neck by placing rolled towels or other
objects around it.

Follow these additional steps:

      * Give first aid for any other serious injuries.
      * Keep the person calm and still. Seek medical help right away.
      * Remove any cold, wet clothes from the person and cover with something warm, if possible. This will help prevent hypothermia.
      * The person may cough and have difficulty breathing once breathing restarts. Reassure the person until you get medical help. 

## DO NOT

Important safety tips:

      * DO NOT attempt a swimming rescue yourself unless you are trained in water rescue, and can do so without endangering yourself.
      * DO NOT go into rough or turbulent water that may endanger you.
      * DO NOT go on the ice to rescue someone.
      * If you can reach the person with your arm or an extended object, do so. 

The Heimlich maneuver is NOT part of the routine rescue of near drownings. DO
NOT perform the Heimlich maneuver unless repeated attempts to position the
airway and rescue breathingÂ have failed, and you think the person's airway is
blocked. Performing the Heimlich maneuver increases the chances that an
unconscious person will vomit and then choke on the vomit.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call 911 or your local emergency number if you can't rescue the drowning
person without putting yourself in danger. If you are trained and able to
rescue the person, do so, butÂ alwaysÂ call for medical help as soon as
possible.

All people who have experienced a near drowning should be checked by a health
care provider. Even though the person may quickly seemÂ OK at the scene, lung
complications are common. Fluid and body chemical (electrolyte) imbalances may
develop.Â Other traumatic injuries may be present, and irregular heart rhythms
can occur.

AllÂ people who have experienced a near drowning who require any form of
resuscitation, including rescue breathing alone, should be transported to the
hospital for evaluation. This should be done even if at the scene the person
appears alert with good breathing and a strong pulse.Â

## Prevention

Some tips to help prevent near drowning are:

      * Do not drink alcohol or use other drugs when swimming or boating. This includes certain prescription medicines.
      * Drowning can occur in any container of water. Do not leave any standing water in basins, buckets, ice chests, kiddie pools, or bathtubs, orÂ in other areas where a young child can get at it. 
      * Secure toilet seatÂ lids with a child safety device.
      * Fence around all pools and spas. Secure all the doors leading to the outside, and install pool and door alarms.
      * If your child is missing, check the pool right away.
      * Never allow children to swim alone or unsupervised regardless of their ability to swim.
      * Never leave children alone for any period of time or let them leave your line of sight around any pool or body of water. Drownings have occurred when parents left "for just a minute" to answer the phone or door.
      * Observe water safety rules.
      * Take a water safety course.

## Alternative Names

Drowning - near

## Images

      * ![Drowning rescue, throw assist](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1091t.jpg)Drowning rescue, throw assist
      * ![Heimlich maneuver on adult](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1098t.jpg)Heimlich maneuver on adult
      * ![Drowning rescue on ice, board assist](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1132t.jpg)Drowning rescue on ice, board assist
      * ![Drowning rescue, reaching assist](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1133t.jpg)Drowning rescue, reaching assist
      * ![Drowning rescue, board assist](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1134t.jpg)Drowning rescue, board assist
      * ![Drowning rescue on the ice, human chain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1137t.jpg)Drowning rescue on the ice, human chain

## References

Caglar D, Quan L. Drowning and submersion injury. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF,
St. Geme JW, Schor N, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics._ 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 74.

Richards DB. Drowning. In: Marx JA, Hockberger RS, Walls RM, eds. _Rosen's
Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2018:chap 137.

Vanden Hoek TL, Morrison LJ, Shuster M, et al. Part 12: cardiac arrest in
special situations: 2010 American Heart Association Guidelines for
Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation and Emergency Cardiovascular Care.
_Circulation._ 2010;122(18 Suppl 3):S829-861. PMID: 20956228
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20956228.Â

## Review Date 10/16/2017

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Drowning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Drowning_thumb.jpg)Drowning _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

