Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001565.htm    
                                Description: Reye syndrome is sudden (acute) brain damage and liver function problems. This condition does not have a known cause.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Reye syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001565.htm

# Reye syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Reye syndrome is sudden (acute) brain damage and liver function problems. This
condition does not have a known cause.

This syndrome has occurred in children who were given aspirin when they had
chickenpox or the flu. Reye syndrome has become very rare. This is because
aspirin is no longer recommended for routine use in children.

## Causes

There is no known cause of Reye syndrome. It is most often seen in children
ages 4 to 12. Most cases that occur with chickenpox are in children ages 5 to
9. Cases that occur with the flu are most often in children ages 10 to 14.

## Symptoms

Children with Reye syndrome get sick very suddenly. The syndrome often begins
with vomiting. It may last for many hours. The vomiting is quickly followed by
irritable and aggressive behavior. As the condition gets worse, the child may
be unable to stay awake and alert.

Other symptoms of Reye syndrome:

      * Confusion
      * Lethargy
      * Loss of consciousness or coma
      * Mental changes
      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Seizures
      * Unusual placement of arms and legs (decerebrate posture). The arms are extended straight and turned toward the body, the legs are held straight, and the toes are pointed downward 

Other symptoms that can occur with this disorder include:

      * Double vision
      * Hearing loss
      * Muscle function loss or paralysis of the arms or legs
      * Speech difficulties
      * Weakness in the arms or legs 

## Exams and Tests

The following tests may be used to diagnose Reye syndrome:

      * Blood chemistry tests
      * Head CT or head MRI scan
      * Liver biopsy
      * Liver function tests
      * Serum ammonia test
      * Spinal tap

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for this condition. The health care provider
will monitor the pressure in the brain, blood gases, and blood acid-base
balance (pH).

Treatments may include:

      * Breathing support (a breathing machine may be needed during a deep coma)
      * Fluids by IV to provide electrolytes and glucose
      * Steroids to reduce swelling in the brain 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does depends on the severity of any coma, as well as other
factors.

The outcome for those who survive an acute episode may be good.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Coma
      * Permanent brain damage
      * Seizures

When untreated, seizures and coma may be life threatening.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911)
immediately if your child has:

      * Confusion
      * Lethargy
      * Other mental changes

## Prevention

Never give a child aspirin unless told to do so by your provider.

When a child must take aspirin, take care to reduce the child's risk of
catching a viral illness, such as the flu and chickenpox. Avoid aspirin for
several weeks after the child has received a varicella (chickenpox) vaccine.

Note: Other over-the-counter medicines, such as Pepto-Bismol and substances
with oil of wintergreen also contain aspirin compounds called salicylates. DO
NOT give these to a child who has a cold or fever.

## Images

      * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Aronson JK. Acetylsalicylic acid. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects
of Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier B.V.; 2016:26-52.

Cherry JD. Reye syndrome In: Cherry JD, Harrison GJ, Kaplan SL, Steinbach WJ,
Hotez PJ, eds. _Feigin and Cherry's Textbook of Pediatric Infectious
Diseases_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 50.

Johnston MV. Encephalopathies. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 598.

## Review Date 8/5/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Reye Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ReyeSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Reye
Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

