Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000316.htm    
                                Description: Hyperkalemic periodic paralysis (hyperPP) is a disorder that causes occasional episodes of muscle weakness and sometimes a higher than normal level of potassium in the blood. The medical name for high    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hyperkalemic periodic paralysis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000316.htm

# Hyperkalemic periodic paralysis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hyperkalemic periodic paralysis (hyperPP) is a disorder that causes occasional
episodes of muscle weakness and sometimes a higher than normal level of
potassium in the blood. The medical name for high potassium level is
hyperkalemia.

HyperPP is one of a group of genetic disorders that includes hypokalemic
periodic paralysis and thyrotoxic periodic paralysis.

## Causes

HyperPP is congenital. This means it is present at birth. In most cases, it is
passed down through families (inherited) as an autosomal dominant disorder. In
other words, only one parent needs to pass the gene related to this condition
on toÂ their childÂ in order forÂ the childÂ to be affected.

Occasionally, the condition may be the result of a genetic problem that is not
inherited.

It is believed that the disorder is related to problems with the way the body
controls sodium and potassium levels in cells.

Risk factors include having other family members with periodic paralysis. It
affects men and women equally.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include attacks of muscle weakness or loss of muscle movement
(paralysis) that come and go. There is normal muscle strength between attacks.

Attacks usually begin in childhood. How often the attacks occur varies. Some
people have several attacks a day. They are usually not severe enough to need
therapy. Some people have associated myotonia, in which they cannot
immediately relax their muscles after use.

The weakness or paralysis:

      * Most commonly occurs at the shoulders,Â back, and hips
      * May also involve the arms and legs, but does not affect muscles of the eyes andÂ muscles that helpÂ with breathing and swallowing
      * Most commonly occurs while resting after activity or exercise
      * May occur on awakening
      * Occurs on and off
      * Usually lasts 15 minutes to 1 hour, but may last up to an entire day

Triggers may include:

      * Eating a high carbohydrate meal
      * Rest after exercise
      * Exposure to cold
      * Skipping meals  

      * Eating potassium-rich foods or taking medicines that contain potassium
      * Stress  

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider may suspect hyperPP based on a family history of the
disorder. Other clues to the disorder are muscle weakness symptoms that come
and go with normal or high results of a potassium test.

Between attacks, a physical examination shows nothing abnormal. During and
between attacks, potassium blood level can be normal or high.

During an attack, muscle reflexes are decreased or absent. AndÂ muscles go
limp rather than staying stiff. Muscle groups near the body, such as the
shoulders and hips, are involved more often than the arms and legs.

Tests that may be done include:

      * Electrocardiogram (ECG), which may be abnormal during attacks
      * Electromyography (EMG), which is usually normal between attacks and abnormal during attacks
      * Muscle biopsy, whichÂ may show abnormalities 

Other tests may be ordered to rule out other causes.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to relieve symptoms and prevent further attacks.

Attacks are seldom severe enough to require emergency treatment. But irregular
heartbeats (heart arrhythmias) may also occur during attacks, for which
emergency treatment is needed. MuscleÂ weakness can become worse with repeated
attacks, so treatment to prevent the attacks should occur as soon as possible.

Glucose or other carbohydrates (sugars) given during an attack may reduce the
severity of the symptoms. Calcium or diuretics (water pills) may need to be
given through a vein to stop sudden attacks.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Sometimes, attacks disappear later in life on their own. But repeated attacks
may lead to permanent muscle weakness.

HyperPP responds well to treatment. Treatment may prevent, and may even
reverse, progressive muscle weakness.

## Possible Complications

Health problems that may be due to hyperPP include:

      * Kidney stones (a side effect of medicine used to treat the condition)
      * Irregular heartbeat
      * Muscle weakness that slowly continues to get worse

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have muscle weakness that comes and goes, especially
you have family members who have periodic paralysis.

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you faint or have difficulty breathing, speaking, or swallowing.

## Prevention

The medicines acetazolamide and thiazidesÂ prevent attacks in many cases. A
low potassium, high carbohydrate diet,Â and light exerciseÂ may help prevent
attacks. Avoiding fasting, strenuous activity, or cold temperatures also may
help.

## Alternative Names

Periodic paralysis - hyperkalemic; Familial hyperkalemic periodic paralysis;
HyperKPP; HyperPP; Gamstorp disease;Â Potassium-sensitive periodic paralysis

## Images

      * ![Muscular atrophy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9680t.jpg)Muscular atrophy

## References

Amato AA. Disorders of skeletal muscle. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta
JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 110.

Kerchner GA, Ptacek LJ. Channelopathies: episodic and electrical disorders of
nervous system. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SK, eds.
_Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 99.

Moxley RT, Heatwole C. Channelopathies: myotonic disorders and periodic
paralysis. In: Swaiman KF, Ashwal S, Ferriero DM, et al, eds. _Swaiman's
Pediatric Neurology: Principles and Practice_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 151.

Tilton AH. Acute neuromuscular diseases and disorders. In: Fuhrman BP,
Zimmerman JJ, eds. _Pediatric Critical Care_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 71.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![ParÃ¡lisis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Paralysis_thumb.jpg)Paralysis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

