Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000237.htm    
                                Description: Atrial fibrillation or flutter is a common type of abnormal heartbeat. The heart rhythm is fast and most often irregular. You were in the hospital to treat this condition.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Atrial fibrillation - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000237.htm

# Atrial fibrillation - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Atrial fibrillation or flutter is a common type of abnormal heartbeat. The
heart rhythm is fast and most often irregular. You were in the hospital to
treat this condition.

## When Youâre in the Hospital

You may have been in the hospital because you have atrial fibrillation. This
condition occurs when your heart beats irregularly and usually faster than
normal. You may have developed this problem while you were in the hospital for
a heart attack, heart surgery, or other serious illness such as pneumonia or
injury.

Treatments you may have received include:

      * Pacemaker
      * Cardioversion (this is a procedure done to change the beat of your heart back to normal. It can be done with medicine or an electric shock.)
      * Cardiac ablation 

You may have been given medicines to change your heartbeat or slow it down.
Some are:

      * Beta blockers, such as metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol-XL) or atenolol (Senormin, Tenormin)
      * Calcium channel blockers, such as diltiazem (Cardizem, Tiazac) or verapamil (Calan, Verelan)
      * Digoxin
      * Antiarrhythmics (medicines that control heart rhythm), such as amiodarone (Cordarone, Pacerone) or sotalol (Betapace) 

## Taking Your Drugs

Have all of your prescriptions filled before you go home. You should take your
medicines the way your health care provider has told you to.

      * Tell your provider about other medicines you are taking including over-the-counter medicines, herbs, or supplements. Ask if it is ok to keep taking these. Also, tell your provider if you are taking antacids.
      * Never stop taking any of your medicines without first talking to your provider. DO NOT skip a dose unless you are told to. 

You may be taking aspirin or clopidogrel (Plavix), prasugrel (Effient),
ticagrelor (Brilinta), warfarin (Coumadin), heparin, or another blood thinner
such as apixiban (Eliquis), rivaroxaban (Xarelto), dabigatran (Pradaxa) to
help keep your blood from clotting.

If you are taking any blood thinner:

      * You need to watch for any bleeding or bruising, and let your provider know if it happens.
      * Tell dentist, pharmacist, and other providers that you are taking this drug.
      * You will need to have extra blood tests to make sure your dose is correct if you are taking warfarin. 

## Lifestyle

Limit how much alcohol you drink. Ask your provider when it is ok to drink,
and how much is safe.

DO NOT smoke cigarettes. If you do smoke, your provider can help you quit.

Follow a heart healthy diet.

      * Avoid salty and fatty foods.
      * Stay away from fast-food restaurants.
      * Your doctor can refer you to a dietitian, who can help you plan a healthy diet.
      * If you take warfarin, DO NOT make big changes in your diet or take vitamins without checking with your doctor. 

Try to avoid stressful situations.

      * Tell your provider if you feel stressed or sad.
      * Talking to a counselor may help. 

Learn how to check your pulse, and check it every day.

      * It is better to take your own pulse than to use a machine.
      * A machine may be less accurate because of atrial fibrillation. 

Limit the amount of caffeine you drink (found in coffee, tea, colas, and many
other beverages.)

DO NOT use cocaine, amphetamines, or any other illegal drugs. They may make
your heart beat faster, and cause permanent damage to your heart.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call for emergency help if you feel:

      * Pain, pressure, tightness, or heaviness in your chest, arm, neck, or jaw
      * Shortness of breath
      * Gas pains or indigestion
      * Sweaty, or if you lose color
      * Lightheaded
      * Fast heartbeat, irregular heartbeat, or your heart is pounding uncomfortably
      * Numbness or weakness in your face, arm, or leg
      * Blurry or decreased vision
      * Problems speaking or understanding speech
      * Dizziness, loss of balance, or falling
      * Severe headache
      * Bleeding 

## Alternative Names

Auricular fibrillation - discharge; A-fib - discharge; AF - discharge; Afib -
discharge

## References

January CT, Wann LS, Alpert JS, et al. 2014 AHA/ACC/HRS guideline for the
management of patients with atrial fibrillation: a report of the American
College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice
Guidelines and the Heart Rhythm Society. _J Am Coll Cardiol_.
2014;64(21):e1-76. PMID: 24685669 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24685669.

Morady F, Zipes DP. Atrial fibrillation: clinical features, mechanisms, and
management. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald
E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2019:chap 38.

Zimetbaum P. Cardiac arrhythmias with supraventricular origin. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 64.

## Read More

      * Arrhythmias
      * Atrial fibrillation or flutter
      * Cardiac ablation procedures 
      * Heart pacemaker
      * Transient ischemic attack

## Patient Instructions

      * Antiplatelet drugs - P2Y12 inhibitors
      * Aspirin and heart disease
      * Cholesterol and lifestyle
      * Cholesterol - drug treatment
      * Controlling your high blood pressure
      * Taking warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven) - what to ask your doctor
      * Taking warfarin (Coumadin)

## Review Date 1/28/2019

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Atrial Fibrillation

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

