Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001600.htm    
                                Description: Rh incompatibility is a condition that develops when a pregnant woman has Rh-negative blood and the baby in her womb has Rh-positive blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Rh incompatibility

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001600.htm

# Rh incompatibility

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Rh incompatibility is a condition that develops when a pregnant woman has Rh-
negative blood and the baby in her womb has Rh-positive blood.

## Causes

During pregnancy, red blood cells from the unborn baby can cross into the
mother's blood through the placenta.

If the mother is Rh-negative, her immune system treats Rh-positive fetal cells
as if they were a foreign substance. The mother's body makes antibodies
against the fetal blood cells. These antibodies may cross back through the
placenta into the developing baby. They destroy the baby's circulating red
blood cells.

When red blood cells are broken down, they make bilirubin. This causes an
infant to become yellow (jaundiced). The level of bilirubin in the infant's
blood may range from mild to dangerously high.

Firstborn infants are often not affected unless the mother had past
miscarriages or abortions. This would sensitize her immune system. This is
because it takes time for the mother to develop antibodies. All children she
has later who are also Rh-positive may be affected.

Rh incompatibility develops only when the mother is Rh-negative and the infant
is Rh-positive. This problem has become less common in places that provide
good prenatal care. This is because special immune globulins called RhoGAM are
routinely used.

## Symptoms

Rh incompatibility can cause symptoms ranging from very mild to deadly. In its
mildest form, Rh incompatibility causes the destruction of red blood cells.
There are no other effects.

After birth, the infant may have:

      * Yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes (jaundice)
      * Low muscle tone (hypotonia) and lethargy 

## Exams and Tests

Before delivery, the mother may have more amniotic fluid around her unborn
baby (polyhydramnios).

There may be:

      * A positive direct Coombs test result 
      * Higher-than-normal levels of bilirubin in the baby's umbilical cord blood 
      * Signs of red blood cell destruction in the infant's blood 

## Treatment

Rh incompatibility can be prevented with the use of RhoGAM. Therefore,
prevention remains the best treatment. Treatment of an infant who is already
affected depends on the severity of the condition.

Infants with mild Rh incompatibility may be treated with phototherapy using
bilirubin lights. IV immune globulin may also be used. For infants severely
affected, an exchange transfusion of blood may be needed. This is to decrease
the levels of bilirubin in the blood.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Full recovery is expected for mild Rh incompatibility.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Brain damage due to high levels of bilirubin (kernicterus)
      * Fluid buildup and swelling in the baby (hydrops fetalis)
      * Problems with mental function, movement, hearing, speech, and seizures 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you think or know you are pregnant and have
not yet seen a provider.

## Prevention

Rh incompatibility is almost completely preventable. Rh-negative mothers
should be followed closely by their providers during pregnancy.

Special immune globulins, called RhoGAM, are now used to prevent RH
incompatibility in mothers who are Rh-negative.

If the father of the infant is Rh-positive or if his blood type is not known,
the mother is given an injection of RhoGAM during the second trimester. If the
baby is Rh-positive, the mother will get a second injection within a few days
after delivery.

These injections prevent the development of antibodies against Rh-positive
blood. However, women with Rh-negative blood type must get injections:

      * During every pregnancy
      * After a miscarriage or abortion
      * After prenatal tests such as amniocentesis and chorionic villus biopsy
      * After injury to the abdomen during pregnancy

## Alternative Names

Rh-induced hemolytic disease of the newborn; Erythroblastosis fetalis

## Patient Instructions

      * Newborn jaundice - discharge

## Images

      * ![Erythroblastosis fetalis - photomicrograph](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1665t.jpg)Erythroblastosis fetalis - photomicrograph
      * ![Jaundiced infant](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2913t.jpg)Jaundiced infant
      * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies
      * ![Exchange transfusion - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17092t.jpg)Exchange transfusion - series
      * ![Rh incompatibility - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19682t.jpg)Rh incompatibility - series

## References

Kaplan M, Wong RJ, Sibley E, Stevenson DK. Neonatal jaundice and liver
diseases. In: Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's
Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 100.

Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM. Blood
disorders. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson
KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 124.

Moise KJ. Red cell alloimmunization. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et
al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 34.

## Review Date 3/6/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Incompatibilidad
Rh](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RhIncompatibility_thumb.jpg)Rh
Incompatibility _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

