Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000417.htm    
                                Description: Chronic pain can limit your everyday activities and make it hard to work. It can also affect how involved you are with friends and family members. Co-workers, family, and friends may have to do more than    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pain and your emotions

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000417.htm

# Pain and your emotions

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chronic pain can limit your everyday activities and make it hard to work. It
can also affect how involved you are with friends and family members. Co-
workers, family, and friends may have to do more than their usual share when
you cannot do the things you normally do. You may feel isolated from the
people around you.

Unwanted feelings, such as frustration, resentment, and stress, are often a
result. These feelings and emotions can worsen your back pain.

## Mind-body Relationship

The mind and body work together, they cannot be separated. The way your mind
controls thoughts and attitudes affects the way your body controls pain.

Pain itself, and the fear of pain, can cause you to avoid both physical and
social activities. Over times this leads to less physical strength and weaker
social relationships. It can also cause further lack of functioning and pain.

## Stress

Stress has both physical and emotional effects on our bodies. It can raise our
blood pressure, increase our breathing rate and heart rate, and cause muscle
tension. These things are hard on the body. They can lead to fatigue, sleeping
problems, and changes in appetite.

If you feel tired but have a hard time falling asleep, you may have stress-
related fatigue. Or you may notice that you can fall asleep, but you have a
hard time staying asleep. These are all reasons to talk with your doctor about
the physical effects stress is having on your body.

Stress can also lead to anxiety, depression, a dependence on others, or an
unhealthy dependence on medicines.

## Depression

Depression is very common among people who have chronic pain. Pain can cause
depression or make existing depression worse. Depression can also make
existing pains worse.

If you or your family members have or have had depression, there is a greater
risk that you could develop depression from your chronic pain. Seek help at
the first sign of depression. Even mild depression can affect how well you can
manage your pain and stay active.

Signs of depression include:

      * Frequent feelings of sadness, anger, worthlessness, or hopelessness
      * Less energy
      * Less interest in activities, or less pleasure from your activities
      * Difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep
      * Decreased or increased appetite that causes major weight loss or weight gain
      * Difficulty concentrating
      * Thoughts about death, suicide, or hurting yourself 

## What to do About Your Emotions

A common type of therapy for people with chronic pain is cognitive behavioral
therapy. Seeking help from a therapist can help you:

      * Learn how to have positive thoughts instead of negative ones
      * Reduce your fear of pain
      * Make important relationships stronger
      * Develop a sense of freedom from your pain 
      * Engage in activities that you enjoy doing

If your pain is the result of an accident or emotional trauma, your health
care provider can assess you for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Many
people with PTSD are not able to deal with their back pain until they deal
with the emotional stress that their accidents or traumas caused.

If you think you may be depressed, or if you are having a hard time
controlling your emotions, talk with your provider. Get help sooner rather
than later. Your provider may also suggest medicines to help with your
feelings of stress or sadness.

## References

Cohen SP, Raja SN. Pain. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2020:chap 27.

Schubiner H. Emotional awareness for pain. In: Rakel D, ed. _Integrative
Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 102.

Turk DC. Psychosocial aspects of chronic pain. In: Benzon HT, Rathmell JP, Wu
CL, Turk DC, Argoff CE, Hurley RW, eds. _Practical Management of Pain_. 5th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Mosby; 2014:chap 12.

## Review Date 7/7/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Chronic Pain

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

