Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000516.htm    
                                Description: Managing chronic back pain means finding ways to make your back pain tolerable so you can live your life. You may not be able to get rid of your pain completely, but you can change some things that worsen    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Managing your chronic back pain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000516.htm

# Managing your chronic back pain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Managing chronic back pain means finding ways to make your back pain tolerable
so you can live your life. You may not be able to get rid of your pain
completely, but you can change some things that worsen your pain. These things
are called stressors. Some of them may be physical, like the chair you sit in
at work. Some may be emotional, like a difficult relationship.

Reducing stress can improve your physical and emotional health. It is not
always easy to reduce stress, but it's easier if you are able to ask your
friends and family for help.

## Make a List

First, make a list of what makes your back pain better and what makes it
worse.

Then try to make changes in your home and work to decrease the causes of your
pain. For example, if bending to pick up heavy pots sends shooting pain down
your back, rearrange your kitchen so that the pots are hanging from above or
are stored at waist height.

If your back pain is worse at work, talk to your boss. It may be that your
workstation isn't set up correctly.

      * If you sit at a computer, make sure that your chair has a straight back with an adjustable seat and back, armrests, and a swivel seat.
      * Ask about having an occupational therapist assess your workspace or movements to see if changes such as a new chair or cushioned mat under your feet would help.
      * Try not to stand for long periods. If you must stand at work, rest one foot on a stool, then the other foot. Keep switching the load of your body's weight between your feet during the day.

Long car rides and getting in and out of the car can be hard on your back.
Here are some tips:

      * Adjust your car seat to make it easier to enter, sit in, and get out of your car.
      * Bring your seat as far forward as possible to avoid leaning forward when you are driving.
      * If you drive long distances, stop and walk around every hour.
      * DO NOT lift heavy objects right after a long car ride.

These changes around your home could help relieve your back pain:

      * Raise your foot up to the edge of a chair or stool to put your socks and shoes on instead of bending over. Also consider wearing shorter socks. They are quicker and easier to put on.
      * Use a raised toilet seat or install handrail next to the toilet to help take pressure off your back when you sit on and get up from the toilet. Also make sure the toilet paper is easy to reach.
      * DO NOT wear high-heeled shoes. If you must wear them sometimes, consider wearing comfortable shoes with flat soles to and from the event or until you must put on high heels.
      * Wear shoes with cushioned soles.
      * Rest your feet on a low stool while you're sitting so that your knees are higher than your hips.

## Rely on Friends and Family

It is important to have strong relationships with family and friends you can
depend on when your back pain makes it hard to get through the day.

Take time to build strong friendships at work and outside of work by using
caring words and being kind. Give sincere compliments to the people around
you. Respect those around you and treat them the way you like to be treated.

If a relationship is causing stress, consider working with a counselor to find
ways to resolve conflict and strengthen the relationship.

## Establish Life Routines

Set up good life habits and routines such as:

      * Exercise a little every day. Walking is a good way to keep your heart healthy and your muscles strong. If walking is too hard for you, work with a physical therapist to develop an exercise plan that you can do and maintain.
      * Eat foods that are low in fats and sugar. Healthy foods make your body feel better, and they decrease your risk of being overweight, which can cause back pain.
      * Reduce demands on your time. Learn how to say yes to things that are important and no to those that are not.
      * Prevent pain from starting. Figure out what causes your back pain, and find other ways to get the job done.
      * Take medicines as needed.
      * Make time for activities that make you feel relaxed and calm.
      * Give yourself extra time to get things done or to get where you need to go.
      * Do things that make you laugh. Laughter can really help reduce stress.

## Alternative Names

Chronic back pain - managing; Chronic back pain - self-care; Failed back
syndrome - managing; Lumbar stenosis -managing; Spinal stenosis - managing;
Sciatica - managing; Chronic lumbar pain - managing

## References

Barr KP, Concannon LG, Harrast MA. Low back pain. In: Cifu DX, ed. _Braddom's
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 33.

Chou R, Deyo R, Friedly J, et al. Noninvasive treatments for low back pain.
Rockville (MD): _Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (US)_ ; 2016 Feb.
Report No.: 16-EHC004-EF. www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26985522.

Dinakar P. Principles of pain management. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta
JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 54.

## Review Date 8/4/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Chronic Pain

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

