Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000929.htm    
                                Description: Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a mental disorder in which people have unwanted and repeated thoughts, feelings, ideas, sensations (obsessions), and behaviors that drive them to do something over    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Obsessive-compulsive disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000929.htm

# Obsessive-compulsive disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a mental disorder in which people have
unwanted and repeated thoughts, feelings, ideas, sensations (obsessions), and
behaviors that drive them to do something over and over (compulsions).

Often the person carries out the behaviors to get rid of the obsessive
thoughts. But this only provides short-term relief. Not doing the obsessive
rituals can cause great anxiety and distress.

## Causes

Health care providers do not know the exact cause of OCD. Factors that may
play a role include head injury, infections, and abnormal function in certain
areas of the brain. Genes (family history) seems to play a strong role. A
history of physical or sexual abuse also appears to increase the risk for OCD.

Parents and teachers often recognize OCD symptoms in children. Most people are
diagnosed by age 19 or 20, but some do not show symptoms until age 30.

## Symptoms

People with OCD have repeated thoughts, urges, or mental images that cause
anxiety. These are called obsessions.

Examples are:

      * Excessive fear of germs
      * Forbidden thoughts related to sex, religion, or harm to others or self
      * Need for order 

They also perform repeated behaviors in response to their thoughts or
obsessions. Examples include:

      * Checking and rechecking actions (such as turning out the lights and locking the door)
      * Excessive counting
      * Ordering things in a certain way
      * Repeatedly washing the hands to ward off infection
      * Repeating words silently
      * Praying silently over and over 

Not everyone who has habits or rituals they like to perform has OCD. But, the
person with OCD:

      * Is not able to control their thoughts or behaviors, even when they understand that they are excessive.
      * Spends at least an hour a day on these thoughts or behaviors.
      * Does not get pleasure from performing a behavior or ritual, other than perhaps brief relief of anxiety.
      * Has major problems in daily life due to these thoughts and rituals. 

People with OCD may also have a tic disorder, such as:

      * Eye blinking
      * Facial grimacing
      * Shoulder shrugging
      * Head jerking
      * Repeated clearing of the throat, sniffing, or grunting sounds 

## Exams and Tests

The diagnosis is made based on an interview of the person and family members.
A physical exam can rule out physical causes. A mental health assessment can
rule out other mental disorders.

Questionnaires can help diagnose OCD and track the progress of treatment.

## Treatment

OCD is treated using a combination of medicine and behavioral therapy.

Medicines used include antidepressants, antipsychotics, and mood stabilizers.

Talk therapy (cognitive behavioral therapy; CBT) has been shown to be
effective for this disorder. During therapy, the person is exposed many times
to a situation that triggers the obsessive thoughts and learns to gradually
tolerate the anxiety and resist the urge to do the compulsion. Therapy can
also be used to reduce stress and anxiety and resolve inner conflicts.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of having OCD by joining a support group. Sharing with
others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel alone.

Support groups are usually not a good substitute for talk therapy or taking
medicine, but can be a helpful addition.

Resources for more information include:

      * International OCD Foundation -- iocdf.org
      * National Institute of Mental Health -- www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/obsessive-compulsive-disorder-ocd/index.shtml

## Outlook (Prognosis)

OCD is a long-term (chronic) illness with periods of severe symptoms followed
by times of improvement. A completely symptom-free period is unusual. Most
people improve with treatment.

## Possible Complications

Long-term complications of OCD have to do with the type of obsessions or
compulsions. For example, constant handwashing can cause skin breakdown. OCD
does not usually progress into another mental problem.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if your symptoms interfere with
daily life, work, or relationships.

## Alternative Names

Obsessive-compulsive neurosis; OCD

## Images

      * ![Obsessive-compulsive disorder](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17282t.jpg)Obsessive-compulsive disorder

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Obsessive-compulsive and related disorders.
In: American Psychiatric Association, ed. _Diagnostic and Statistical Manual
of Mental Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing;
2013:235-264.

Lyness JM. Psychiatric disorders in medical practice. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 397.

Stewart SE, Lafleur D, Dougherty DD, Wilhelm S, Keuthen NJ, Jenike MA.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder and obsessive-compulsive and related disorders.
In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General
Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 33.

## Review Date 3/26/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Obsessive-Compulsive
Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OCD_thumb.jpg)Obsessive-Compulsive
Disorder _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

