Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000421.htm    
                                Description: Calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate (CPPD) arthritis is a joint disease that can cause attacks of arthritis. Like gout, crystals form in the joints. But in this arthritis, the crystals are not formed from    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Calcium pyrophosphate arthritis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000421.htm

# Calcium pyrophosphate arthritis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate (CPPD) arthritis is a joint disease that can
cause attacks of arthritis. Like gout, crystals form in the joints. But in
this arthritis, the crystals are not formed from uric acid.

## Causes

Deposition of calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate (CPPD) causes this form of
arthritis. The buildup of this chemical forms crystals in the joints. This
leads to attacks of joint swelling and pain in the knees, wrists, ankles, and
other joints.

Among older adults, CPPD is a common cause of sudden (acute) arthritis in one
joint. The attack is caused due to:

      * Injury to the joint
      * Hyaluronate injection in the joint
      * Medical illness

CPPD arthritis mainly affects the elderly because joint degeneration and
osteoarthritis increases with age. Such joint damage increases the tendency of
CPPD deposition. However, CPPD arthritis can sometimes affect younger people
who have conditions such as:

      * Hemochromatosis
      * Parathyroid disease
      * Dialysis-dependent renal failure

## Symptoms

In most cases, CPPD arthritis does not show any symptoms.

Some people with chronic CPPD deposition in large joints may have the
following symptoms:

      * Pain
      * Swelling
      * Warmth
      * Redness 

Attacks of joint pain can last for months. There may be no symptoms between
attacks.

Because the symptoms are similar, CPPD arthritis can be confused with:

      * Gouty arthritis (gout)
      * Osteoarthritis
      * Rheumatoid arthritis

## Exams and Tests

Most arthritic conditions show similar symptoms. Carefully testing the joint
fluid for crystals can help the doctor detect the condition.

You may undergo the following tests:

      * Joint fluid exam to detect white blood cells and calcium pyrophosphate crystals
      * Joint x-rays to look for joint damage and calcium deposits in joint spaces
      * Other joint imaging tests such as CT scan, MRI or ultrasound, if required
      * Blood tests to screen for conditions that are linked to calcium pyrophosphate arthritis

## Treatment

Treatment may involve removing fluid to relieve pressure in the joint. A
needle is placed into the joint and fluid is aspirated. Some common treatment
options are:

      * Steroid injections: to treat severely swollen joints
      * Oral steroids: to treat multiple swollen joints
      * Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDS): to ease the pain
      * Colchicine: to treat attacks of CPPD arthritis

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people do well with treatment to reduce the acute joint pain. A medicine
such as colchicine may help prevent repeat attacks. There is no treatment to
remove theÂ CPPD crystals.

## Possible Complications

Permanent joint damage can occur without treatment.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have attacks of joint swelling and joint
pain.

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent this disorder. However, treating other
problems that may cause CPPD arthritis may make the condition less severe.

Regular follow-up visits may help prevent permanent damage of the affected
joints.

## Alternative Names

Calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate deposition disease; CPPD disease; Acute CPPD
arthritis; Pseudogout; Pyrophosphate arthropathy; Chondrocalcinosis

## Images

      * ![Shoulder joint inflammation](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8811t.jpg)Shoulder joint inflammation
      * ![Osteoarthritis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17103t.jpg)Osteoarthritis
      * ![The structure of a joint](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19399t.jpg)The structure of a joint

## References

Edwards NL. Crystal deposition diseases. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 273.

Rosenthal AK, Ryan LM. Calcium pyrophosphate deposition disease. _N Engl J
Med_. 2016; 374(26):2575-2584. PMID: 27355536
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27355536.

Terkeltaub R. Calcium crystal disease: calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate and
basic calcium phosphate. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC, Gabriel SE, McInnes IB,
O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelley and Firestein's Textbook of Rheumatology_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 96.

## Review Date 1/29/2018

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, ABIM Board Certified in Rheumatology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Gout](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Gout_thumb.jpg)Gout _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

