Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000422.htm    
                                Description: Gout is a type of arthritis. It occurs when uric acid builds up in blood and causes inflammation in the joints.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gout

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000422.htm

# Gout

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Gout is a type of arthritis. It occurs when uric acid builds up in blood and
causes inflammation in the joints.

Acute gout is a painful condition that often affects only one joint. Chronic
gout is the repeated episodes of pain and inflammation. More than one joint
may be affected.

![Gout](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200056t.gif)Watch this video
about:Gout

## Causes

Gout is caused by having higher-than-normal level of uric acid in your body.
This may occur if:

      * Your body makes too much uric acid
      * Your body has a hard time getting rid of uric acid

When uric acid builds up in the fluid around the joints (synovial fluid), uric
acid crystals form. These crystals cause the joint to become inflamed, causing
pain, swelling and warmth.

The exact cause is unknown. Gout may run in families. The problem is more
common in men, in women after menopause, and people who drink alcohol. As
people become older, gout becomes more common.

The condition may also develop in people with:

      * Diabetes
      * Kidney disease
      * Obesity
      * Sickle cell anemia and other anemias
      * Leukemia and other blood cancers

Gout may occur after taking medicines that interfere with the removal of uric
acid from the body. People who take certain medicines, such as
hydrochlorothiazide and other water pills, may have a higher level of uric
acid in the blood.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of acute gout:

      * In most cases, only one or a few joints are affected. The big toe, knee, or ankle joints are most often affected. Sometimes many joints become swollen and painful.
      * The pain starts suddenly, often during the night. Pain is often severe, described as throbbing, crushing, or excruciating.
      * The joint appears warm and red. It is most often very tender and swollen (it hurts to put a sheet or blanket over it).
      * There may be a fever.
      * The attack may go away in a few days, but may return from time to time. Additional attacks often last longer.

The pain and swelling most often go away after the first attack. Many people
will have another attack in the next 6 to 12 months.

Some people may develop chronic gout. This is also called gouty arthritis.
This condition can lead to joint damage and loss of motion in the joints.
People with chronic gout will have joint pain and other symptoms most of the
time.

Deposits of uric acid can form lumps below the skin around joints or other
places such as the elbows, fingertips, and ears. The lump is called a tophus,
from Latin, meaning a type of stone. Tophi (multiple lumps) can develop after
a person has had gout for many years. These lumps may drain chalky material.

## Exams and Tests

Tests that may be done include:

      * Synovial fluid analysis (shows uric acid crystals)
      * Uric acid -- blood
      * Joint x-rays (may be normal)
      * Synovial biopsy
      * Uric acid -- urine

A uric acid level in the blood over 7 mg/dL (milligrams per deciliter)Â is
high. But, not everyone with a high uric acid level has gout.

## Treatment

Take medicines for gout as soon as you can if you have a new attack.

Take nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen or
indomethacin when symptoms begin. Talk to your health care provider about the
correct dose. You will need stronger doses for a few days.

      * A prescription medicine called colchicine helps reduce pain, swelling, and inflammation.
      * Corticosteroids (such as prednisone) can also be very effective. Your provider may inject the inflamed joint with steroids to relieve the pain.
      * With attacks of gout in multiple joints an injectable medicine called anakinra (Kineret) may be used.
      * The pain often goes away within 12 hours of starting treatment. Most of the time, all pain is gone within 48 hours.

You may need to take daily medicines such as allopurinol (Zyloprim),
febuxostat (Uloric) or probenecid (Benemid) to decrease the uric acid level in
your blood. Lowering the uric acid to less than 6 mg/dL is needed to prevent
deposits of uric acid. If you have visible tophi, the uric acid should be
lower than 5 mg/dL.

You may need these medicines if:

      * You have several attacks during the same year or your attacks are quite severe.
      * You have damage to joints.
      * You have tophi.
      * You have kidney disease or kidney stones.

Diet and lifestyle changes may help prevent gouty attacks:

      * Decrease alcohol, especially beer (some wine may be helpful).
      * Lose weight.
      * Exercise daily.
      * Limit your intake of red meat and sugary beverages.
      * Choose healthy foods, such as dairy products, vegetables, nuts, legumes, fruits (less sugary ones), and whole grains.
      * Coffee and vitamin C supplements (may help some people).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Proper treatment of acute attacks and lowering uric acid to a level less than
6 mg/dL allows people to live a normal life. However, the acute form of the
disease may progress to chronic gout if the high uric acid is not treated
adequately.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Chronic gouty arthritis.
      * Kidney stones.
      * Deposits in the kidneys, leading to chronic kidney failure.

High levels of uric acid in the blood are associated with increased risk of
kidney disease. Studies are being done to find out whether lowering uric acid
reduces the risk for kidney disease.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of acute gouty arthritis or if you
develop tophi.

## Prevention

You may not be able to prevent gout, but you may be able to avoid things that
trigger symptoms. Taking medicines to lower uric acid can prevent progression
of gout. Over time, your deposits of uric acid will disappear.

## Alternative Names

Gouty arthritis - acute; Gout - acute; Hyperuricemia; Tophaceous gout; Tophi;
Podagra; Gout - chronic; Chronic gout; Acute gout; Acute gouty arthritis

## Patient Instructions

      * Kidney stones and lithotripsy - discharge
      * Kidney stones - self-care
      * Kidney stones - what to ask your doctor
      * Percutaneous urinary procedures - discharge

## Images

      * ![Uric acid crystals](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1222t.jpg)Uric acid crystals
      * ![Tophi gout in hand](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19833t.jpg)Tophi gout in hand

## References

Burns CM, Wortmann RL. Clinical features and treatment of gout. In: Firestein
GS, Budd RC, Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelley's and Firestein's
Textbook of Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 95.

Edwards NL. Crystal deposition diseases. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 273.

FitzGerald JD, Neogi T, Choi HK. Editorial: do not let gout apathy lead to
gouty arthropathy. _Arthritis Rheumatol_. 2017;69(3):479-482. PMID: 28002890
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28002890.

Khanna D, Fitzgerald JD, Khanna PP, et al. 2012 American College of
Rheumatology guidelines for management of gout. Part 1: systematic
nonpharmacologic and pharmacologic therapeutic approaches to hyperuricemia.
_Arthritis Care Res (Hoboken)_. 2012;64(10):1431-1446. PMID: 23024028
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23024028.

Khanna D, Khanna PP, Fitzgerald JD, et al. 2012 American College of
Rheumatology guidelines for management of gout. Part 2: therapy and
antiinflammatory prophylaxis of acute gouty arthritis. _Arthritis Care Res
(Hoboken)_. 2012;64(10):1447-1461. PMID: 23024029
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23024029.

Liew JW, Gardner GC. Use of anakinra in hospitalized patients with crystal-
associated arthritis. _J Rheumatol_. 2019 pii: jrheum.181018. [Epub ahead of
print]. PMID: 30647192 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/m/pubmed/30647192.

## Review Date 4/8/2019

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, MACR, ABIM Board Certified in
Rheumatology, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Gout](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Gout_thumb.jpg)Gout _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

