Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000798.htm    
                                Description: When a medicine is not taken in the way it is meant to be used and a person is addicted to it, the problem is called prescription drug use disorder. People who have this disorder take the drugs because    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Substance use - prescription drugs

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000798.htm

# Substance use - prescription drugs

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

When a medicine is not taken in the way it is meant to be used and a person is
addicted to it, the problem is called prescription drug use disorder. People
who have this disorder take the drugs because the chemicals in the medicines
have psychoactive effects. Psychoactive means having an effect on the way the
brain functions. In short, the drugs are used to get high.

## Types of Drugs That are Misused

Common kinds of drugs that are misused include depressants, opioids, and
stimulants.

DEPRESSANTS

These medicines are also known as tranquilizers and sedatives. They are
prescribed to treat anxiety and sleep problems.

Types of drugs and their street names include:

      * Barbiturates, such as Amytal, Nembutal, phenobarbital, Seconal. Street names include barbs, phennies, reds, red birds, tooies, yellows, yellow jackets.
      * Benzodiazepines, such as Ativan, Halcion, Klonopin Librium, Valium, Xanax. Street names include bars, benzos, blues, candy, chill pills, french fries, downers, planks, sleeping pills, totem poles, tranks, zanies, and z-bar.
      * Other sleep medicines, such as Ambien, Sonata, Lunesta. Street names include A-, zombie pills.

When used to get high, they cause feelings of well-being, intense happiness,
and excitement. As street drugs, depressants come in pills or capsules and are
usually swallowed.

Harmful effects of depressants on the body include:

      * Decreased attention span
      * Impaired judgment
      * Lack of coordination
      * Lowered blood pressure
      * Memory problems
      * Slurred speech 

Long-time users may have life-threatening withdrawal symptoms if they try to
stop the drug abruptly.

OPIOIDS

Opioids are powerful painkillers. They are prescribed to treat pain after
surgery or a dental procedure. Sometimes they are used to treat severe cough
or diarrhea.

Types of opioids and their street names include:

      * Codeine. There are many medicines that contain codeine as an ingredient, especially ones for cough such as Robitussin A-C and Tylenol with codeine. Street names for codeine alone include captain cody, cody, little c, and school boy. For Tylenol with codeine, street names include T1, T2, T3, T4, and dors and fours. Codeine syrup mixed with soda can have street names such as purple drank, sizzup, or Texas tea.
      * Fentanyl. Drugs include Actiq, Duragesic, Onsolis, and Sublimaze. Street names include apache, china girl, china white, dance fever, friend, goodfella, jackpot, murder 8, percopop, tango and cash.
      * Hydrocodone: Drugs include Lorcet, Lortab, and Vicodin. Street names include fluff, hydros, v-itamin, vic, vike, Watson-387.
      * Morphine. Drugs include Avinza, Duramorph, Kadian, Ormorph, Roxanol. Street names include dreamer, first line, god's drug, M, miss emma, mister blue, monkey, morf, morpho, vitamin m, white stuff.
      * Oxycodone. Drugs include Oxycontin, Percocet, Percodan, Tylox. Street names include cotton, hillbilly heroin, o.c., ox, oxy, oxycet, oxycotton, percs, pills.

When used to get high, opioids cause a person to feel relaxed and intensely
happy. As street drugs, they come as powder, pills or capsules, syrup. They
can be swallowed, injected, smoked, put into the rectum, or inhaled through
the nose (snorted).

Harmful effects of opioids on the body include:

      * Constipation
      * Dry mouth
      * Confusion
      * Lack of coordination
      * Lowered blood pressure
      * Weakness, dizziness, sleepiness 

In high doses, opioid intoxication can result, which can cause breathing
problems, coma, or death.

STIMULANTS

These are drugs that stimulate the brain and body. They make the messages
between the brain and body move faster. As a result, the person is more alert
and physically active. Stimulants such as amphetamines are prescribed to treat
health problems such as obesity, narcolepsy, or attention deficit
hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).

Types of stimulants and their street names include:

      * Amphetamines, such as Adderall, Biphetamine, and Dexedrine. Street names include bennies, black beauties, crosses, hearts, LA turnaround, speed, truck drivers, uppers.
      * Methylphenidate, such as Concerta, Metadate, Quillivant, and Ritalin. Street names include JIF, kibbles and bits, MPH, pineapple, r-ball, skippy, the smart drug, vitamin R. 

When used to get high, stimulants cause a person to feel excited, very alert,
and have increased energy. Some people use the drugs, especially amphetamines,
to help them stay awake on the job or to study for a test. Others use them to
boost their performance in sports.

As street drugs, they come as pills. They can be swallowed, injected, smoked,
or inhaled through the nose (snorted).

Harmful effects of stimulants on the body include:

      * Heart problems, such as fast heart rate, irregular heartbeat, increased blood pressure
      * High body temperature and skin flushing
      * Loss of appetite and weight loss
      * Memory loss and problems thinking clearly
      * Delusions and hallucinations
      * Mood and emotional problems, such as aggressive or violent behavior
      * Restlessness and tremors 

## Prescription Drug Addiction

You usually do not get addicted to prescription medicines when you take them
at the right dosage to treat your health condition.

Addiction means your body and mind are dependent on the drug. You are not able
to control your use of it and you need it to get through daily life.

Drug use over a period of time can lead to tolerance. Tolerance means you need
more and more of the drug to get the same feeling. And if you try to stop
using, your mind and body may have reactions. These are called withdrawal
symptoms, and may include:

      * Strong cravings for the drug
      * Having mood swings from feeling depressed to agitated to anxious
      * Not being able to concentrate
      * Seeing or hearing things that are not there (hallucinations)
      * Physical reactions may include headaches, aches and pains, increased appetite, not sleeping well
      * Life-threatening symptoms in long-time users of certain drugs 

## Treatment Options

Treatment begins with recognizing there is a problem. Once you decide you want
to do something about your drug use, the next step is to get help and support.

Treatment programs use behavior change techniques through counseling (talk
therapy). The goal is to help you understand your behaviors and why you use
drugs. Involving family and friends during counseling can help support you
keep you from going back to using (relapsing). Treatment programs also teach
you how to better deal with situations that led you to use or to relapse in
the past.

With some drug addictions, such as opioids, medicines may also be used to help
reduce the effects of opioids on the brain. Other medicines may be used to
lessen cravings and withdrawal symptoms.

If you have severe withdrawal symptoms, you may need to stay at a live-in
treatment program. There, your health and safety can be monitored as you
recover.

## Your Ongoing Recovery

As you recover, focus on the following to help prevent relapse:

      * Keep going to your treatment sessions.
      * Find new activities and goals to replace the ones that involved drug use.
      * Spend more time with family and friends you lost touch with while you were using. Consider not seeing friends who are still using.
      * Exercise and eat healthy foods. Taking care of your body helps it heal from the harmful effects of drug use. You will feel better, too.
      * Avoid triggers. These triggers can include the people you used drugs with. Triggers can also be places, things, or emotions that can make you want to use again. 

## Resources

Resources that may help you on your road to recovery include:

      * LifeRing - lifering.org
      * National Coalition Against Prescription Drug Abuse - ncapda.org
      * SMART Recovery - www.smartrecovery.org
      * Partnership for Drug-Free Kids - drugfree.org/medicine-abuse-project

Your workplace employee assistance program (EAP) is also a good resource.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call for an appointment with your health care provider if you or someone you
know is addicted to prescription drugs and needs help stopping. Also call if
you are having withdrawal symptoms that concern you.

## Alternative Names

Substance use disorder - prescription drugs; Substance abuse - prescription
drugs; Drug abuse - prescription drugs; Drug use - prescription drugs;
Narcotics - substance use; Opioid - substance use; Sedative - substance use;
Hypnotic - substance use; Benzodiazepine - substance use; Stimulant -
substance use; Barbiturate - substance use; Codeine - substance use; Oxycodone
- substance use; Hydrocodone - substance use; Morphine - substance use;
Fentanyl - substance use

## References

Lipari RN, Williams M, Van Horn SL. _Why Do Adults Misuse Prescription Drugs?_
Rockville, MD: Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration;
Center for Behavioral Health; 2017.

Kowalchuk A, Reed BC. Substance use disorders. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 50.

National Institute on Drug Abuse website. Misuse of prescription drugs.
www.drugabuse.gov/publications/research-reports/prescription-drugs/what-
prescription-drug-abuse. Updated January 2018. Accessed June 1, 2018.

## Review Date 5/5/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Prescription Drug Misuse

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

