Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000959.htm    
                                Description: Croup is breathing difficulty and a &quot;barking&quot; cough. Croup is due to swelling around the vocal cords. It is common in infants and children.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Croup

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000959.htm

# Croup

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Croup is breathing difficulty and a "barking" cough. Croup is due to swelling
around the vocal cords. It is common in infants and children.

## Causes

Croup is most often caused by viruses such as parainfluenza RSV, measles,
adenovirus, and influenza. It tends to appear in children between 3 months and
5 years old, but it can happen at any age. Some children are more likely to
get croup and may get it several times. It is most common between October and
March, but can occur at any time of the year.

More severe cases of croup may be caused by bacteria. This condition is called
bacterial tracheitis.

Croup may also be caused by:

      * Allergies
      * Breathing in something that irritates your airway
      * Acid reflux 

## Symptoms

The main symptom of croup is a cough that sounds like a seal barking.

Most children will have mild cold symptoms for several days before the barking
cough becomes evident. As the cough gets more frequent, the child may have
trouble breathing or stridor (a harsh, crowing noise made when breathing in).

Croup is typically much worse at night. It often lasts 5 or 6 nights. The
first night or two are most often the worst. Rarely, croup can last for weeks.
Talk to your child's health care provider if croup lasts longer than a week or
comes back often.

## Exams and Tests

Children with croup are most often diagnosed based on the parent's description
of the symptoms and a physical exam. Sometimes, a provider will listen to a
child cough over the phone to identify croup. In a few cases, x-rays or other
tests may be needed.

A physical exam may show chest retractions with breathing. When listening to
the child's chest through a stethoscope, the provider may hear:

      * Difficulty breathing in and out
      * Wheezing
      * Decreased breath sounds

An exam of the throat may reveal a red epiglottis. A neck x-ray may reveal a
foreign object or narrowing of the trachea.

## Treatment

Most cases of croup can be safely managed at home. However, you should call
your provider for advice, even in the middle of the night.

Steps you can take at home include:

      * Expose your child to cool or moist air, such as in a steamy bathroom or outside in the cool night air. This may offer some breathing relief.
      * Set up a cool air vaporizer in the child's bedroom and use it for a few nights.
      * Make your child more comfortable by giving acetaminophen. This medicine also lowers a fever so the child will not have to breathe as hard.
      * Avoid cough medicines unless you discuss them with yourÂ provider first.

Your provider may prescribe medicines, such as:

      * Steroid medicines taken by mouth or through an inhaler
      * Antibiotic medicine (for some, but not most cases) 

Your child may need to be treated in the emergency room or to stay in the
hospital if they:

      * Have breathing problems that do not go away or get worse
      * Become too tired because of breathing problems
      * Have bluish skin color
      * Are not drinking enough fluids 

Medicines and treatments used at the hospital may include:

      * Breathing medicines given with a nebulizer machine
      * Steroid medicines given through a vein (IV)
      * An oxygen tent placed over a crib
      * Fluids given through a vein for dehydration
      * Antibiotics given through a vein 

Rarely, a breathing tube through the nose or mouth will be needed to help your
child breathe.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Croup is most often mild, but it can still be dangerous. It most often goes
away in 3 to 7 days.

The tissue that covers the trachea (windpipe) is called the epiglottis. If the
epiglottis becomes infected, the entire windpipe can swell shut. This is a
life-threatening condition.

If an airway blockage is not treated promptly, the child can have severe
trouble breathing or breathing may stop completely.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Most croup can be safely managed at home with telephone support from your
provider. Call your provider if your child is not responding to home treatment
or is acting more irritable.

Call 911 if:

      * Croup symptoms may have been caused by an insect sting or inhaled object.
      * Your child has bluish lips or skin color. 
      * Your child is drooling.
      * Your child is having trouble swallowing.
      * There is stridor (a noise when breathing in).
      * There is a tugging-in of the muscles between the ribs when breathing in.
      * Your child is struggling to breathe. 

## Prevention

Wash your hands frequently and avoid close contact with people who have a
respiratory infection.

Many cases of croup can be prevented with immunizations. The diphtheria,
_Haemophilus influenzae_ (Hib), and measles vaccines protect children from
some of the most dangerous forms of croup.

## Alternative Names

Viral croup; Laryngotracheobronchitis - acute; Spasmodic croup; Barking cough
- croup

## Images

      * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs
      * ![Throat anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1118t.jpg)Throat anatomy
      * ![Voice box](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19708t.jpg)Voice box

## References

Bower J, McBride JT. Croup in children (acute laryngotracheobronchitis). In:
Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 61.

Roosevelt GE. Acute inflammatory upper airway obstruction (croup,
epiglottitis, laryngitis, and bacterial tracheitis). In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 385.

Rose E. Pediatric respiratory emergencies: upper airway obstruction and
infections. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's
Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 167.

## Review Date 2/19/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![A toddler sleeping in a parent's
arms](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Sleeping_thumb.jpg)Croup _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

