Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001250.htm    
                                Description: Takayasu arteritis is an inflammation of large arteries such as the aorta and its major branches. The aorta is the artery that carries blood from the heart to the rest of the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Takayasu arteritis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001250.htm

# Takayasu arteritis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Takayasu arteritis is an inflammation of large arteries such as the aorta and
its major branches. The aorta is the artery that carries blood from the heart
to the rest of the body.

## Causes

The cause of Takayasu arteritis is unknown. The disease occurs mainly in
children and women between the ages of 20 to 40. It is more common in people
of East Asian, Indian or Mexican descent. However, it is now being seen more
often in other parts of the world. Several genes that increase the chance of
having this problem were recently found.

Takayasu arteritis appears to be an autoimmune condition. This means the
body's immune system mistakenly attacks healthy tissue. The condition may also
involve other organ systems. Takayasu arteritis has many features that are
similar to giant cell arteritis or temporal arteritis in older people.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Arm weakness or pain with use
      * Chest pain
      * Dizziness
      * Fatigue
      * Fever
      * Lightheadedness
      * Muscle or joint pain
      * Skin rash
      * Night sweats
      * Vision changes
      * Weight loss 
      * Decreased radial pulses (at the wrist)
      * Difference in blood pressure between the two arms
      * High blood pressure (hypertension)

There may also be signs of inflammation (pericarditis or pleuritis).

## Exams and Tests

There is no blood test available to make a definite diagnosis. The diagnosis
is made when a person has symptoms and imaging showing blood vessel narrowing
suggesting inflammation.

Possible tests include:

      * Arteriogram
      * Angiogram
      * Complete blood count (CBC)
      * C-reactive protein (CRP)
      * Electrocardiogram (ECG)
      * Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)
      * Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA)
      * Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
      * Computed tomography (CT)
      * Ultrasound
      * X-ray of the chest

## Treatment

Treatment of Takayasu arteritis is difficult. However, people who have the
right treatment can see improvement. It is important to identify the condition
early.

MEDICINES

Most people are first treated with high doses of steroids. Immunosuppressive
drugs, such as azathioprine, mycophenolate, methotrexate, or leflunomide are
often added.

Biologic agents including TNF inhibitors such as infliximab are recommended
for people who do not improve with the previous treatment.

Other biologic agents that show promising benefits for treating Takayasu
arteritis include tocilizumab, and rituximab.

SURGERY

Surgery or angioplasty may be used to open up narrowed arteries to supply
blood or open up the constriction.

Aortic valve replacement may be needed in some cases.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

This disease can be fatal without treatment. However, a combined treatment
approach using medicines and surgery has lowered death rates. Adults have a
better chance of survival than children.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Blood clot
      * Heart attack
      * Heart failure
      * Pericarditis
      * Aortic valve insufficiency
      * Pleuritis
      * Stroke 
      * Gastrointestinal bleeding or pain from blockage of bowel blood vessels

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have symptoms of this condition. Weak
pulse, chest pain, and breathing difficulty require immediate care.

## Alternative Names

Pulseless disease

## Images

      * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
      * ![Heart valves - anterior view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18092t.jpg)Heart valves - anterior view
      * ![Heart valves - superior view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18093t.jpg)Heart valves - superior view
      * ![Heart valves](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9380t.jpg)Heart valves

## References

Carmona FD, Coit P, Saruhan-Direskeneli G, et al. Corrigendum: analysis of the
common genetic component of large vessel vasculitides through a meta-
immunochip strategy. _Sci Rep_. 2017;7:46012. PMID: 28378796
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28378796.

Glebova NO, Abularrage CJ. Takayasu's disease. In: Cronenwett JL, Johnston W,
eds. _Rutherford's Vascular Surgery_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 80.

Keser G, Aksu K. What is new in management of Takayasu arteritis? _Presse
Med_. 2017;46(7-8 Pt 2):e229-e235. PMID: 28774475
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28774475.

Mekinian A, Comarmond C, Resche-Rigon M, et al. Efficacy of biological-
targeted treatments in Takayasu arteritis: multicenter, retrospective study of
49 patients. _Circulation_. 2015;132(18):1693-1700. PMID: 26354797
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26354797.

Stone JH, Klearman M, Collinson N.Trial of tocilizumab in giant-cell
arteritis. _N Engl J Med_. 2017;377(15):1494-1495. PMID: 29020600
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29020600.

## Review Date 10/1/2017

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
Rheumatology, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Vasculitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Vasculitis_thumb.jpg)Vasculitis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

