Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001438.htm    
                                Description: Polyarteritis nodosa is a serious blood vessel disease. The small and medium-sized arteries become swollen and damaged.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Polyarteritis nodosa

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001438.htm

# Polyarteritis nodosa

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Polyarteritis nodosa is a serious blood vessel disease. The small and medium-
sized arteries become swollen and damaged.

## Causes

Arteries are the blood vessels that carry oxygen-rich blood to organs and
tissues. The cause of polyarteritis nodosa is unknown. The condition occurs
when certain immune cells attack the affected arteries. The tissues that are
fed by the affected arteries DO NOT get the oxygen and nourishment they need.
Damage occurs as a result.

More adults than children get this disease.

People with active hepatitis B or hepatitis C may develop this disease.

## Symptoms

Symptoms are caused by damage to affected organs. The skin, joints, muscle,
gastrointestinal tract, heart, kidneys, and nervous system are often affected.

Symptoms include:

      * Abdominal pain
      * Decreased appetite
      * Fatigue
      * Fever
      * Joint aches
      * Muscle aches
      * Unintentional weight loss
      * Weakness

If nerves are affected, you may have numbness, pain, burning, and weakness.
Damage to the nervous system may cause strokes or seizures.

## Exams and Tests

No specific lab tests are available to diagnose polyarteritis nodosa. There
are a number of disorders that have features similar to polyarthritis nodosa.
These are known as "mimics."

You will have a complete physical exam.

Lab tests that can help make the diagnosis and rule out mimics include:

      * Complete blood count (CBC) with differential, creatinine, tests for hepatitis B and C, and urinalysis
      * Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) or C-reactive protein (CRP)
      * Serum protein electrophoresis, cryoglobulins
      * Serum complement levels
      * Arteriogram
      * Tissue biopsy
      * Other blood tests will be done to rule out similar conditions, such as systemic lupus erythematosus (ANA) or granulomatosis with polyangiitis (ANCA)
      * Test for HIV
      * Cryoglobulins
      * Anti-phospholipid antibodies
      * Blood cultures 

## Treatment

Treatment involves medicines to suppress inflammation and the immune system.
These may include steroids, such as prednisone. Similar medicines, such as
azathioprine, methotrexate or mycophenolate that allow for reducing the dose
of steroids are often used as well. Cyclophosphamide is used in severe cases.

For polyarteritis nodosa related to hepatitis, treatment may involve
plasmapheresis and antiviral medicines.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Current treatments with steroids and other drugs that suppress the immune
system (such as azathioprine or cyclophosphamide) can improve symptoms and the
chance of long-term survival.

The most serious complications most often involve the kidneys and
gastrointestinal tract.

Without treatment, the outlook is poor.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Heart attack
      * Intestinal necrosis and perforation
      * Kidney failure
      * Stroke

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you develop symptoms of this disorder. Early
diagnosis and treatment may improve the chance of a good outcome.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention. However, early treatment can prevent some damage
and symptoms.

## Alternative Names

Periarteritis nodosa; PAN; Systemic necrotizing vasculitis

## Images

      * ![Microscopic polyarteritis 2](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/3017t.jpg)Microscopic polyarteritis 2
      * ![Circulatory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8747t.jpg)Circulatory system

## References

Luqmani R. Polyarteritis nodosa and related disorders. In: Firestein GS, Budd
RC, Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelley's Textbook of
Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 90.

Pagnoux C, Seror R, Henegar C, et al. Clinical features and outcomes in 348
patients with polyarteritis nodosa: a systematic retrospective study of
patients diagnosed between 1963 and 2005 and entered into the French
Vasculitis Study Group Database. _Arthritis Rheum_. 2010;62(2):616-626. PMID:
20112401 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20112401.

PuÃ©chal X, Pagnoux C, Baron G, et al. Adding azathioprine to remission-
induction glucocorticoids for eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis
(Churg-Strauss), microscopic polyangiitis, or polyarteritis nodosa without
poor prognosis factors: a randomized, controlled trial. _Arthritis Rheumatol_.
2017;69(11):2175-2186. PMID: 28678392 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28678392.

Ribi C, Cohen P, Pagnoux C, et al. Treatment of polyarteritis nodosa and
microscopic polyangiitis without poor-prognosis factors: A prospective
randomized study of one hundred twenty-four patients. _Arthritis Rheum_.
2010;62(4):1186-1197. PMID: 20131268 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20131268.

Shanmugam VK. Vasculitis and other uncommon arteriopathies. In: Sidawy AN,
Perler BA, eds. _Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 137.

Stone JH. The systemic vasculitides. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 270.

## Review Date 4/12/2018

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, ABIM Board Certified in Rheumatology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Vasculitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Vasculitis_thumb.jpg)Vasculitis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

