Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000540.htm    
                                Description: Cryoglobulinemia is the presence of abnormal proteins in the blood. These proteins thicken in cold temperatures.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cryoglobulinemia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000540.htm

# Cryoglobulinemia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cryoglobulinemia is the presence of abnormal proteins in the blood. These
proteins thicken in cold temperatures.

## Causes

Cryoglobulins are antibodies. It is not yet known why they become solid or
gel-like at low temperatures in the laboratory. In the body, these antibodies
can form immune complexes that can cause inflammation and block blood vessels.
This is called cryoglobulinemic vasculitis. This may lead to problems ranging
from skin rashes to kidney failure.

Cryoglobulinemia is part of a group of diseases that cause damage and
inflammation of the blood vessels throughout the body (vasculitis). There are
three main types of this condition. They are grouped based on the type of
antibody that is produced:

      * Type I
      * Type II
      * Type III

Types II and III are also referred to as mixed cryoglobulinemia _._

Type I cryoglobulinemia is most often related to cancer of the blood or immune
systems.

Types II and III are most often found in people who have a long-lasting
(chronic) inflammatory condition, such as an autoimmune disease or hepatitis
C. Most people with the type II form of cryoglobulinemia have a chronic
hepatitis C infection.

Other conditions that may be related to cryoglobulinemia include:

      * Leukemia
      * Multiple myeloma
      * Primary macroglobulinemia
      * Rheumatoid arthritis
      * Systemic lupus erythematosus

## Symptoms

Symptoms will vary, depending on the type of disorderÂ you haveÂ and the
organs that are involved. Symptoms may include:

      * Breathing problems
      * Fatigue
      * Glomerulonephritis
      * Joint pain
      * Muscle pain
      * Purpura
      * Raynaud phenomenon
      * Skin death
      * Skin ulcers

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will do a physical exam.Â You will be checked for
signs of liver and spleen swelling.

Tests for cryoglobulinemia include:

      * Complete blood count (CBC).
      * Complement assay \-- numbers will be low.
      * Cryoglobulin test \-- may show presence of cryoglobulins.Â (This is a complicated laboratory procedure that involves many steps. It is important that the lab that performs the test is familiar with the process.)
      * Liver function tests \-- may be high if hepatitis C is present.
      * Rheumatoid factor \-- positive in types II and III.
      * Skin biopsy \-- may show inflammation in blood vessels, vasculitis.
      * Protein electrophoresis - blood \-- may show an abnormal antibody protein.
      * Urinalysis -- may show blood in the urine if the kidneys are affected. 

Other tests may include:

      * Angiogram
      * Chest x-ray
      * ESR
      * Hepatitis C test
      * Nerve conduction tests, if the person has weakness in the arms or legs

## Treatment

MIXED CRYOGLOBULINEMIA (TYPES II AND III)

Mild or moderate forms of cryoglobulinemia can often be treated by taking
steps to deal with the underlying cause.

Current direct-acting medicines for hepatitis C eliminate the virus in nearly
all people. As hepatitis C goes away, the cryoglobulins will disappear in
about one half of all people over the next 12 months. Your provider will
continue to monitor the cryoglobulins after treatment.

Severe cryoglobulinemia vasculitis involves vital organs or large areas of
skin. It is treated with corticosteroids and other medicines that suppress the
immune system.

      * Rituximab is an effective drug and has fewer risks than other medicines.
      * Cyclophosphamide is used in life-threatening conditions where rituximab is not working or available. This medicine was used often in the past.
      * A treatment called plasmaphereis is also used. In this procedure, blood plasma is taken out of blood circulation and abnormal cryoglobulin antibody proteins are removed. The plasma is replaced by fluid, protein, or donated plasma.

TYPE I CRYOGLOBULINEMIA

This disorder is due to a cancer of the blood or immune system such as
multiple myeloma. Treatment is directed against the abnormal cancer cells that
produce the cryoglobulin.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most of the time, mixed cryoglobulinemia does not lead to death. Outlook can
be poor if the kidneys are affected.

## Possible Complications

Complications include:

      * Bleeding in the digestive tract (rare)
      * Heart disease (rare)
      * Infections of ulcers
      * Kidney failure
      * Liver failure
      * Skin death
      * Death

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You develop symptoms of cryoglobulinemia.
      * You have hepatitis C and develop symptoms of cryoglobulinemia.
      * You have cryoglobulinemia and develop new or worsening symptoms. 

## Prevention

There is no known prevention for the condition.

      * Staying away from cold temperatures may prevent some symptoms.
      * Testing and treatment for hepatitis C infection will reduce your risk.

## Images

      * ![Cryoglobulinemia of the fingers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1518t.jpg)Cryoglobulinemia of the fingers
      * ![Cryoglobulinemia - fingers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/3166t.jpg)Cryoglobulinemia - fingers
      * ![Blood cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9123t.jpg)Blood cells

## References

Patterson ER, Winters JL. Hemapheresis. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 37.

Roccatello D, Saadoun D, Ramos-Casals M, et al. Cryoglobulinaemia. _Nat Rev
Dis Primers_. 2018;4(1):11. PMID: 30072738
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30072738.

Stone JH. Immune complex-mediated small-vessel vasculitis. In: Firestein GS,
Budd RC, Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelley and Firestein's
Textbook of Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 91.

## Review Date 1/10/2019

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, MACR, ABIM Board Certified in
Rheumatology, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Vasculitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Vasculitis_thumb.jpg)Vasculitis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

