Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001622.htm    
                                Description: Optic nerve atrophy is damage to the optic nerve. The optic nerve carries images of what the eye sees to the brain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Optic nerve atrophy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001622.htm

# Optic nerve atrophy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Optic nerve atrophy is damage to the optic nerve. The optic nerve carries
images of what the eye sees to the brain.

## Causes

There are many causes of optic atrophy. The most common is poor blood flow.
This is called ischemic optic neuropathy. The problem most often affects older
adults. The optic nerve can also be damaged by shock, toxins, radiation, and
trauma.

Eye diseases, such as glaucoma, can also cause a form of optic nerve atrophy.
The condition can also be caused by diseases of the brain and central nervous
system. These may include:

      * Brain tumor
      * Cranial arteritis (sometimes called temporal arteritis)
      * Multiple sclerosis
      * Stroke

There are also rare forms of hereditary optic nerve atrophy that affect
children and young adults.

## Symptoms

Optic nerve atrophy causes vision to dim and reduces the field of vision. The
ability to see fine detail will also be lost. Colors will seem faded. Over
time, the pupil will be less able to react to light, and eventually,Â its
ability to react to light may be lost.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will do a complete eye exam to look for the
condition. The exam will include tests of:

      * Color vision
      * Pupil light reflex
      * Tonometry
      * Visual acuity 
      * Visual field (side vision) test

You may also need a complete physical exam and other tests.

## Treatment

Damage from optic nerve atrophy cannot be reversed. The underlying disease
must be found and treated. Otherwise, vision loss will continue.

Rarely, conditions that lead to optic atrophy may be treatable.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Vision lost to optic nerve atrophy cannot be recovered. It is very important
to protect the other eye.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

People with this condition need to be checked regularly by an eye doctor with
experience in nerve-related conditions. Tell your doctor right away about any
change in vision.

## Prevention

Many causes of optic nerve atrophy cannot be prevented.

Prevention steps include:

      * Older adults should have their provider carefully manage their blood pressure.
      * Use standard safety precautions to prevent injuries to the face. Most facial injuries are the result of car accidents. Wearing seat belts may help prevent these injuries.
      * Schedule a routine annual eye exam to check for glaucoma.
      * Never drink home-brewed alcohol and forms of alcohol that are not intended for drinking. Methanol, which may be found in home-brewed alcohol, can cause optic nerve atrophy in both eyes.

## Alternative Names

Optic atrophy; Optic neuropathy

## Images

      * ![Optic nerve](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9708t.jpg)Optic nerve

## References

Karanjia R, Patel VR, Sadun AA. Hereditary, nutritional, and toxic optic
atrophies. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 9.9.

Prasad S, Balcer LJ. Abnormalities of the optic nerve and retina. In: Daroff
RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 17.

Yanoff M, Cameron D. Diseases of the visual system. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 423.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Photograph of an
eye](https://medlineplus.gov/images/eye-211610_640_thumb.jpg)Optic Nerve
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

