Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002365.htm    
                                Description: A fistula is an abnormal connection between two body parts, such as an organ or blood vessel and another structure. Fistulas are usually the result of an injury or surgery. Infection or inflammation can    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fistula

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002365.htm

# Fistula

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A fistula is an abnormal connection between two body parts, such as an organ
or blood vessel and another structure. Fistulas are usually the result of an
injury or surgery. Infection or inflammation can also cause a fistula to form.

## Information

Fistulas may occur in many parts of the body. They can form between:

      * An artery and vein
      * Bile ducts and the surface of the skin (from gallbladder surgery)
      * The cervix and vagina
      * The neck and throat
      * The space inside the skull and nasal sinus
      * The bowel and vagina
      * The colon and surface of the body, causing feces to exit through an opening other than the anus
      * The stomach and surface of the skin
      * The uterus and peritoneal cavity (the space between the walls of the abdomen and internal organs)
      * An artery and vein in the lungs (results in blood not picking up enough oxygen in the lungs)
      * The navel and gut 

Inflammatory bowel disease, such as ulcerative colitis or Crohn disease, can
lead to fistulas between one loop of intestine and another. Injury can cause
fistulas to form between arteries and veins.

Types of fistulas include:

      * Blind (open on one end only, but connects to two structures)
      * Complete (has openings both outside and inside the body)
      * Horseshoe (connects the anus to the surface of the skin after going around the rectum)
      * Incomplete (a tube from the skin that is closed on the inside and does not connect to any internal structure) 

## Images

      * ![Anorectal fistulas](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19291t.jpg)Anorectal fistulas
      * ![Fistula](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9328t.jpg)Fistula

## References

De Prisco G, Celinski S,Â Spak CW. Abdominal abscesses and gastrointestinal
fistulas. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger & Fordtran's
Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_.
10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 28.

Lentz GM, Krane M. Anal incontinence: diagnosis and management. In: Lobo RA,
Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 22.

## Review Date 10/8/2017

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Fistulas](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Fistulas_thumb.jpg)Fistulas _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

