Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000486.htm    
                                Description: Labor that begins before week 37 is called &quot;preterm&quot; or &quot;premature.&quot; About 1 out of every 10 babies born in the United States is preterm.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Preterm labor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000486.htm

# Preterm labor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Labor that begins before week 37 is called "preterm" or "premature." About 1
out of every 10 babies born in the United States is preterm.

A preterm birth is one of the major reasons babies are born disabled or die.
But good prenatal care improves the chances that a preterm baby will do well.

## What are the Signs and Symptoms of Preterm Labor?

You need to see a health care provider right away if you have:

      * Spotting and cramps in your abdomen
      * Contractions with lower back pain or pressure in your groin or thighs
      * Fluid that leaks from your vagina in a trickle or a gush
      * Bright red bleeding from your vagina
      * A thick, mucous-filled discharge from your vagina with blood in it
      * Your water breaks (ruptured membranes)
      * More than 5 contractions per hour, or contractions that are regular and painful
      * Contractions that get longer, stronger, and closer together

## What Causes Preterm Labor?

Researchers do not know what actually causes preterm labor in most women.
However, we do know that certain conditions can increase the risk of preterm
labor, including:

      * A previous preterm delivery
      * A history of cervical surgery, such as a LEEP or cone biopsy
      * Being pregnant with twins
      * Infection in the mother or in the membranes around the baby
      * Certain birth defects in the baby
      * High blood pressure in the mother
      * The bag of water breaks early
      * Too much amniotic fluid
      * First trimester bleeding 

The mother's health problems or lifestyle choices that can lead to preterm
labor include:

      * Cigarette smoking
      * Illegal drug use, often cocaine and amphetamines
      * Physical or severe psychological stress
      * Poor weight gain during pregnancy
      * Obesity 

Problems with the placenta, uterus, or cervix that can lead to preterm labor
include:

      * When the cervix does not stay closed on its own (cervical incompetence)
      * When the shape of the uterus is not normal
      * Poor function of the placenta, placental abruption, and placenta previa 

## Lower Your Risk of Preterm Labor

To reduce your risk of preterm labor, follow your provider's advice. Call as
soon as you can if you think you are having preterm labor. Early treatment is
the best way to prevent preterm delivery.

Prenatal care lowers the risk of having your baby too early. See your provider
as soon as you think you are pregnant. You should also:

      * Get routine checkups throughout your pregnancy
      * Eat healthy foods
      * Not smoke
      * Not use alcohol and drugs

It is even better to start seeing your provider if you are planning to have a
baby but are not yet pregnant. Be as healthy as you can be before getting
pregnant:

      * Tell you provider if you think you have a vaginal infection.
      * Keep your teeth and gums clean before and during pregnancy.
      * Make sure to get prenatal care and keep up with recommended visits and tests.
      * Reduce stress during your pregnancy.
      * Talk to your provider or midwife about other ways to stay healthy.

Women with a history of preterm delivery may need weekly injections of the
hormone progesterone. Be sure to tell your provider if you had a previous
premature birth.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider right away if you notice any of these signs before your
37th week of pregnancy:

      * Cramps, pain, or pressure in your abdomen
      * Spotting, bleeding, mucous, or watery fluid leaking from your vagina
      * Sudden increase in vaginal discharge

Your provider can do an exam to see if you are having preterm labor.

      * An exam will check to see if your cervix has dilated (opened) or if your water has broken.
      * A transvaginal ultrasound is often done to assess the length of the cervix. Early preterm labor can often be diagnosed when the cervix shortens. The cervix typically shortens before it dilates.
      * Your provider may use a monitor to check your contractions.
      * If you have a fluid discharge, it will be tested. The test may help show if you will deliver early or not.

If you have preterm labor, you will need to be in the hospital. You may
receive medicines to stop your contractions and mature your baby's lungs.

## Alternative Names

Pregnancy complications - preterm

## References

Simhan HN, Iams JD, Romero R. Preterm labor and birth. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl
JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 29.

Sumhan HN, Berghella V, Iams JD. Preterm labor and birth. In: Creasy RK,
Resnick R, Iams JD, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, eds. _Creasy and
Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 40.

Vasquez V, Desai S. Labor and delivery and their complications. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and
Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 181.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Premature Babies
      * Preterm Labor

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

