Link: https://medlineplus.gov/hepatitistesting.html    
                                Description: Hepatitis is inflammation of the liver. Some types, like hepatitis A, B, and C, are caused by viruses. Learn about tests to diagnose viral hepatitis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Hepatitis Testing

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/hepatitistesting.html

#  Hepatitis Testing

Also called: Hepatitis panel

## Summary

Your liver is the largest organ inside your body. It helps your body digest
food, store energy, and remove poisons. Hepatitis is an inflammation of the
liver. There are different types of hepatitis. Some are caused by viruses.
They include hepatitis A, hepatitis B, and hepatitis C. To diagnose hepatitis,
your health care provider will ask you about your medical history and
symptoms, do a physical exam, and order blood tests.

There are blood tests for each type of viral hepatitis. Some tests check for
antibodies to the virus. Antibodies are blood proteins that your immune system
makes in response to the virus. Other blood tests look for parts of the virus,
such as proteins or genetic material. Some tests show that you have the
infection now. Other tests show that you have had it at some time, or that you
have immunity to it.

Doctors use the tests to diagnose hepatitis, and to screen people who are at
risk for hepatitis B or C. The risk factors are different for each type.
Doctors may also use the tests in people who have hepatitis, to check how
contagious they are or to see how well treatment is working.

## Learn More

    * Hepatitis A Test (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
    * Hepatitis B Test (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
    * Hepatitis C Test (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
    * Hepatitis Panel ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Screening for Hepatitis B Virus Infection in Nonpregnant Adolescents and Adults (U.S. Preventive Services Task Force) \- PDF
    * Screening for Hepatitis C Infections in Adults (Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality) \- PDF
    * Testing Recommendations for Hepatitis C Virus Infection (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hepatitis Testing ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Screening and Treatment Program to Eliminate Hepatitis C in Egypt.
    * Article: Universal Disease Screening and Treatment - The Egyptian Example.
    * Article: Efficacy and safety of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in Chinese patients with...
    * Hepatitis Testing -- see more articles

## Patient Handouts

    * Hepatitis C: What to Expect When Getting Tested (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF
    * Hepatitis virus panel (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Hepatitis Testing](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HepatitisTesting.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Hepatitis Testing_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 27 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 6 July 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

