Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001407.htm    
                                Description: Neuralgia is a sharp, shocking pain that follows the path of a nerve and is due to irritation or damage to the nerve.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Neuralgia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001407.htm

# Neuralgia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Neuralgia is a sharp, shocking pain that follows the path of a nerve and is
due to irritation or damage to the nerve.

Common neuralgias include:

      * Postherptic neuralgia (pain that continues after a bout of shingles)
      * Trigeminal neuralgia (stabbing or electric-shock-like pain in parts of the face)

## Causes

Causes of neuralgia include:

      * Chemical irritation
      * Chronic kidney disease
      * Diabetes
      * Infections, such as herpes zoster (shingles), HIV/AIDS, Lyme disease, and syphilis
      * Medicines such as cisplatin, paclitaxel, or vincristine
      * Porphyria (blood disorder)
      * Pressure on nerves by nearby bones, ligaments, blood vessels, or tumors
      * Trauma (including surgery) 

In many cases, the cause is unknown.

Postherpetic neuralgia and trigeminal neuralgia are the two most common forms
of neuralgia. A related but less common neuralgia affects the glossopharyngeal
nerve, which provides feeling to the throat.

Neuralgia is more common in older people, but it may occur at any age.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

      * Increased sensitivity of the skin along the path of the damaged nerve, so that any touch or pressure is felt as pain
      * Pain along the path of the nerve that is sharp or stabbing, in the same location each episode, comes and goes (intermittent) or is constant and burning, and may get worse when the area is moved
      * Weakness or complete paralysis of muscles supplied by the same nerve 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam, and ask about the
symptoms.

The exam may show:

      * Abnormal sensation in the skin
      * Reflex problems
      * Loss of muscle mass
      * Lack of sweating (sweating is controlled by nerves)
      * Tenderness along a nerve
      * Trigger points (areas where even a slight touch triggers pain) 

You may also need to see a dentist if the pain is in your face or jaw. A
dental exam can rule out dental disorders that may cause facial pain (such as
a tooth abscess).

Other symptoms (such as redness or swelling) may help rule out conditions such
as infections, bone fractures, or rheumatoid arthritis.

There are no specific tests for neuralgia. But, the following tests may be
done to find the cause of the pain:

      * Blood tests to check blood sugar, kidney function, and other possible causes of neuralgia
      * Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
      * Nerve conduction study with electromyography
      * Ultrasound
      * Spinal tap (lumbar puncture) 

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause, location, and severity of the pain.

Medicines to control pain may include:

      * Antidepressants
      * Antiseizure drugs
      * Over-the-counter or prescription pain medicines
      * Pain medicines in the form of skin patches or creams

Other treatments may include:

      * Shots with pain-relieving (anesthetic) drugs
      * Nerve blocks
      * Physical therapy (for some types of neuralgia, especially postherpetic neuralgia)
      * Procedures to reduce feeling in the nerve (such as nerve ablation using radiofrequency, heat, balloon compression, or injection of chemicals)
      * Surgery to take pressure off a nerve
      * Alternative therapy, such as acupuncture or biofeedback

Procedures may not improve symptoms and can cause loss of feeling or abnormal
sensations.

When other treatments fail, doctors may try nerve or spinal cord stimulation.
In rare cases, a procedure called motor cortex stimulation (MCS) is tried. An
electrode is placed over part of nerve, spinal cord, or brain and is hooked to
a pulse generator under the skin. This changes how your nerves signal and it
may reduce pain.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most neuralgias are not life threatening and are not signs of other life-
threatening disorders. For severe pain that does not improve, see a pain
specialist so that you can explore all treatment options.

Most neuralgias respond to treatment. Attacks of pain usually come and go.
But, attacks may become more frequent in some people as they get older.

Sometimes, the condition may improve on its own or disappear with time, even
when the cause is not found.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Problems from surgery
      * Disability caused by pain
      * Side effects of drugs used to control pain
      * Dental procedures that aren't needed before neuralgia is diagnosed

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if:

      * You develop shingles
      * You have symptoms of neuralgia, especially if over-the-counter pain medicines do not relieve your pain
      * You have severe pain (see a pain specialist)

## Prevention

Strict control of blood sugar may prevent nerve damage in people with
diabetes. In the case of shingles, antiviral drugs and the herpes zoster virus
vaccine may prevent neuralgia.

## Alternative Names

Nerve pain; Painful neuropathy; Neuropathic pain

## Images

      * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Katirji B. Disorders of peripheral nerves. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 107.

Scadding JW, Koltzenburg M. Painful peripheral neuropathies. In: McMahon SB,
Koltzenburg M, Tracey I, Turk DC, eds. _Wall and Melzack's Textbook of Pain_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:chap 65.

Shy ME. Peripheral neuropathies. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 420.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Photograph of a woman clutching her stomach in
pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pain_thumb.jpg)Pain _Read more_

![Peripheral Nerve
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeripheralNerveDisorders_thumb.jpg)Peripheral
Nerve Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

