Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003111.htm    
                                Description: Groin pain refers to discomfort in the area where the abdomen ends and the legs begin. This article focuses on groin pain in men. The terms &quot;groin&quot; and &quot;testicle&quot; are sometimes used interchangeably. But    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Groin pain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003111.htm

# Groin pain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Groin pain refers to discomfort in the area where the abdomen ends and the
legs begin. This article focuses on groin pain in men. The terms "groin" and
"testicle" are sometimes used interchangeably. But what causes pain in one
area does not always cause pain in the other.

## Causes

Common causes of groin pain include:

      * Pulled muscle, tendon, or ligaments in the leg. This problem often occurs in people who play sports such as hockey, soccer, and football. This condition is sometimes called "sports hernia" although the name is misleading since it is not an actual hernia. It may also involve pain in the testicles. Pain most often improves with rest and medicines.
      * Hernia. This problem occurs when there is a weak spot in the wall of the abdominal muscle that allows internal organs to press through. Surgery is needed to correct the weak spot.
      * Disease or injury to the hip joint. 

Less common causes include:

      * Inflammation of the testicle or epididymitis and related structures
      * Twisting of the spermatic cord that attaches to the testicle (testicular torsion)
      * Tumor of the testicle
      * Kidney stone
      * Inflammation of the small or large intestine
      * Skin infection
      * Enlarged lymph glands
      * Urinary tract infection 

## Home Care

Home care depends on the cause. Follow your health care provider's
recommendations.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You have ongoing groin pain for no reason. 
      * You have burning pain. 
      * You have pain with swelling of the scrotum.
      * Pain affects only one testicle for more than 1 hour, especially if it came on suddenly.
      * You have noticed changes such as a testicular growth or change in skin color.
      * There is blood in your urine.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will do an exam of the groin area and ask questions about your
medical history and symptoms, such as:

      * Have you had a recentÂ injury?
      * Has there been a change in your activity, especially a recent strain, heavy lifting, or similar activity?
      * When did the groin pain start? Is it getting worse? Does it come and go?
      * What other symptoms do you have? 
      * Have you been exposed to any sexually transmitted diseases?

Tests that may be performed include:

      * Blood tests such as a complete blood count (CBC) or blood differential
      * Ultrasound or other scan
      * Urinalysis

## Alternative Names

Pain - groin; Lower abdominal pain; Genital pain; Perineal pain

## References

Larson CM, Nepple JJ. Athletic pubalgia/core muscle injury and adductor
pathology. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee Drez & Miller's Orthopaedic
Sports Medicine_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 84.

Reiman MP, Brotzman SB. Groin pain. In: Giangarra CE, Manske RC, eds.
_Clinical Orthopaedic Rehabilitation: A Team Approach_. 4th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 67.

## Review Date 7/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Photograph of a woman clutching her stomach in
pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pain_thumb.jpg)Pain _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

