Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000580.htm    
                                Description: During pregnancy, your body will go through a lot of changes as your baby grows and your hormones change. Along with the other common symptoms during pregnancy, you will often notice new aches and pains.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aches and pains during pregnancy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000580.htm

# Aches and pains during pregnancy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

During pregnancy, your body will go through a lot of changes as your baby
grows and your hormones change. Along with the other common symptoms during
pregnancy, you will often notice new aches and pains.

## Headaches

Headaches are common during pregnancy. Before you take medicine, ask your
health care provider if it is safe to take. Other than medicine, relaxation
techniques may help.

Headaches can be a sign of preeclampsia (high blood pressure during
pregnancy). If your headaches get worse, and they do not go away easily when
you rest and take acetaminophen (Tylenol), especially toward the end of your
pregnancy, tell your provider.

## Pain in Your Lower Abdomen (Belly) or Groin

Most often, this happens between 18 and 24 weeks. When you feel stretching or
pain, move slowly or change positions.

Mild aches and pains lasting for short periods of time are normal. But see
your provider right away if you have constant, severe abdominal pain, possible
contractions, or you have pain and are bleeding or have fever. These are
symptoms that can indicate more severe problems, such as:

      * Placental abruption (the placenta separates from the uterus)
      * Preterm labor
      * Gallbladder disease
      * Appendicitis 

## Numbness and Tingling

As your uterus grows, it may press on the nerves in your legs. This may cause
some numbness and tingling (feeling of pins and needles) in your legs and
toes. This is normal and will go away after you give birth (it may take a few
weeks to months).

You may also have numbness or tingling in your fingers and hands. You may
notice it more often when you wake up in the morning. This also goes away
after you give birth, though, again, not always right away.

If it is uncomfortable, you can wear a brace at night. Ask your provider where
to get one.

Have your provider check any persistent numbness, tingling, or weakness in any
extremity to ensure there is not a more serious problem.

## Backache

Pregnancy strains your back and posture. To avoid or reduce backaches, you
can:

      * Stay physically fit, walk, and stretch regularly.
      * Wear low-heeled shoes.
      * Sleep on your side with a pillow between your legs.
      * Sit in a chair with good back support.
      * Avoid standing for too long.
      * Bend your knees when picking things up. DO NOT bend at the waist.
      * Avoid lifting heavy objects.
      * Avoid gaining too much weight.
      * Use heat or cold on the sore part of your back.
      * Have someone massage or rub the sore part of your back. If you go to a professional massage therapist, let them know you are pregnant.
      * Do back exercises that your provider suggests to relieve back stress and maintain a healthy posture. 

## Leg Aches and Pains

The extra weight you carry when you are pregnant can make your legs and back
hurt.

Your body will also make a hormone that loosens ligaments throughout your body
to prepare you for childbirth. However, these looser ligaments are more easily
injured, most often in your back, so be careful when you lift and exercise.

Leg cramps are common in the last months of pregnancy. Sometimes stretching
your legs before bed will reduce the cramps. Your provider can show you how to
safely stretch.

Watch for pain and swelling in one leg, but not the other. This can be a sign
of a blood clot. Let your provider know if this happens.

## References

Cline M, Young N. Antepartum care. In: Kellerman RD, Bope ET, eds. _Conn's
Current Therapy 2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:1123-1129.

Gregory KD, Ramos DE, Jauniaux ERM. Preconception and prenatal care. In: Gabbe
SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 6.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Pain
      * Pregnancy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

