Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000532.htm    
                                Description: When you have a serious illness, you may have pain. No one can look at you and know how much pain you have. Only you can feel and describe your pain. There are many treatments for pain. Tell your health    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Palliative care - managing pain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000532.htm

# Palliative care - managing pain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

When you have a serious illness, you may have pain. No one can look at you and
know how much pain you have. Only you can feel and describe your pain. There
are many treatments for pain. Tell your health care providers about your pain
so that they can use the right treatment for you.

## Palliative Care

Palliative care is a holistic approach to care that focuses on treating pain
and symptoms and improving quality of life in people with serious illnesses.

## When you Have Pain

Pain that is always or almost always present can lead to lack of sleep,
depression, or anxiety. These can make it harder to do things or go places,
and harder to enjoy life. Pain can be stressful for you and your family. But
with treatment, pain can be managed.

## How Pain is Measured

First, your provider will find out:

      * What is causing the pain
      * How much pain you have
      * What your pain feels like
      * What makes your pain worse
      * What makes your pain better
      * When you have pain 

You can tell your provider how much pain you have by measuring it on a scale
from 0 (no pain) to 10 (the worst pain possible). You choose the number that
describes how much pain you have now. You can do this before and after
treatments, so you and your health care team can tell how well your treatment
works.

## How Pain is Treated

There are many treatments for pain. Which treatment is best for you depends on
the cause and amount of your pain. Several treatments may be used at the same
time for the best pain relief. These include:

      * Thinking about something else so you are not thinking about the pain, such as playing a game or watching TV
      * Mind-body therapies such as deep breathing, relaxing, or meditation
      * Ice packs, heating pads, biofeedback, acupuncture, or massage 

You can also take medicines, such as:

      * Acetaminophen (Tylenol)
      * Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as aspirin, naproxen (Aleve), ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), and diclofenac
      * Narcotics (opioids), such as codeine, morphine, oxycodone, or fentanyl
      * Medicines that work on the nerves, such as gabapentin and pregablin 

## What you can do

Understand your medicines, how much to take, and when to take them.

      * DO NOT take less or more medicine than prescribed.
      * DO NOT take your medicines more often.
      * If you are thinking about not taking a medicine, talk to your provider first. You may need to take a lower dose over time before you can stop safely. 

If you have concerns about your pain medicine, talk to your provider.

      * If the medicine you take does not relieve your pain, a different one may help.
      * Side effects, such as drowsiness, may get better over time.
      * Other side effects, such as hard dry stools, can be treated. 

Some people who take narcotics for pain become dependent on them. If you are
concerned about this, talk to your provider.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if your pain is not well controlled or if you have side
effects from your pain treatments.

## Alternative Names

End of life - pain management; Hospice - pain management

## References

Abernethy AP, Kamal A, Currow DC. When should nonsteroidal antiinflammatory
drugs be used to manage pain? In: Goldstein NE, Morrison RS, eds. _Evidence-
Based Practice of Palliative Medicine_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2013:chap 10.

Ellershaw JE, Dickman A. Pain control in the care of the dying. In: McMahon
SB, Koltzenburg M, Tracey I, Turk DC, eds. _Wall and Melzack's Textbook of
Pain_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:chap 76.

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Pain
      * Palliative Care

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

