Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000353.htm    
                                Description: Children should have many chances to play, run, bike, and play sports during the day. They should get 60 minutes of moderate activity every day.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Exercise and activity - children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000353.htm

# Exercise and activity - children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Children should have many chances to play, run, bike, and play sports during
the day. They should get 60 minutes of moderate activity every day.

Moderate activity makes your breathing and heartbeat speed up. Some examples
are:

      * Walking fast
      * Playing chase or tag
      * Playing basketball and most other organized sports (such as soccer, swimming, and dancing) 

Younger children cannot stick with the same activity as long as an older
child. They may be active for only 10 to 15 minutes at a time. The goal is
still to get 60 minutes of total activity every day.

## Why Exercise?

Children who exercise:

      * Feel better about themselves
      * Are more physically fit
      * Have more energy 

Other benefits of exercise for children are:

      * A lower risk for heart disease and diabetes
      * Healthy bone and muscle growth
      * Staying at a healthy weight

## Getting Started

Some kids enjoy being outside and active. Others would rather stay inside and
play video games or watch TV. If your child does not like sports or physical
activity, look for ways to motivate him. These ideas may help children become
more active.

      * Let children know that being active will give them more energy, make their bodies stronger, and make them feel better about themselves.
      * Give encouragement for physical activity and help children believe they can do it.
      * Be their role model. Start being more active if you are not already active yourself.
      * Make walking a part of your family's daily routine. Get good walking shoes and rain jackets for the wet days. DO NOT let rain stop you.
      * Go for walks together after dinner, before turning on the TV or playing computer games.
      * Take your family to community centers or parks where there are playgrounds, ball fields, basketball courts, and walking paths. It is easier to be active when people around you are active. 
      * Encourage indoor activities such as dancing to your child's favorite music.

## Find a Good Match

Organized sports and daily activities are good ways for your child to get
exercise. You will have better success if you select activities that fit your
child's preferences and abilities.

      * Individual activities include swimming, running, skiing, or biking.
      * Group sports are another option, such as soccer, football, basketball, karate, or tennis.
      * Choose an exercise that works well for your child's age. A 6-year-old may play outside with other kids, while a 16-year-old may prefer to run at a track. 

Daily activities can use as much, or more, energy than some organized sports.
Some everyday things your child can do to be active include:

      * Walk or bike to school.
      * Take the stairs instead of the elevator.
      * Ride a bike with family or friends.
      * Take the dog for a walk.
      * Play outside. Shoot a basketball or kick and throw a ball around, for instance.
      * Play in the water, at a local pool, in a water sprinkler, or splashing in puddles.
      * Dance to music.
      * Skate, ice-skate, skate-board, or roller-skate.
      * Do household chores. Sweep, mop, vacuum, or load the dishwasher.
      * Take a family walk or hike.
      * Play computer games that involve moving your whole body.
      * Rake leaves and jump in the piles before bagging them up.
      * Mow the lawn.
      * Weed the garden. 

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). School health guidelines to
promote healthy eating and physical activity. _MMWR Recomm Rep_.
2011;60(RR-5):1-76. PMID: 21918496 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21918496.

Cooper DM, Bar-Yoseph Ronen, Olin JT, Random-Aizik S. Exercise and lung
function in child health and disease. In: Wilmott RW, Deterding R, Li A,
Ratjen F, et al. eds. _Kendig's Disorders of the Respiratory Tract in
Children_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 12.

Gahagan S. Overweight and obesity. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah
SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 60.

## Review Date 5/17/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * High Cholesterol in Children and Teens

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

