Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000354.htm    
                                Description: The first step in helping your child get to a healthy weight is to talk with their health care provider. Your child    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Supporting your child with weight loss

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000354.htm

# Supporting your child with weight loss

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The first step in helping your child get to a healthy weight is to talk with
their health care provider. Your child's provider can set healthy goals for
weight-loss and help with monitoring and support.

Getting support from friends and family will also help your child lose weight.
Try to get the whole family to join a weight-loss plan, even if weight loss is
not the goal for everyone. Weight-loss plans for children focus on healthy
lifestyle habits. All family members can benefit from having healthier
lifestyles.

## Food Discipline

Commend and reward your child when they make good food choices and participate
in healthy activities. This will encourage them to keep at it.

      * DO NOT use food as a reward or punishment. For example, DO NOT offer food if your child does chores. DO NOT withhold food if your child does not do his homework.
      * DO NOT punish, tease, or put down children who are not motivated in their weight-loss plan. This will not help them.
      * DO NOT force your child to eat all the food on his plate. Infants, children, and teens need to learn to stop eating when they are full. 

## Show Them How to Do It

The best thing you can do to motivate your kids to lose weight is to lose
weight yourself, if you need to. Lead the way and follow the advice you give
them.

## Tips to Help Along the Way

Try to eat as a family.

      * Have meals where family members sit down and talk about the day.
      * Set some rules, such as no lectures or teasing allowed.
      * Make family meals positive experiences. 

Cook meals at home and involve your children in the meal planning.

      * Let children help prepare meals if they are old enough. If your children help decide what food to prepare, they are more likely to eat it.
      * Homemade meals are often healthier than fast food or prepared foods. They can also save you money.
      * If you are new to cooking, with a little practice, homemade meals can taste better than fast food.
      * Take your children food shopping so they can learn how to make good food choices. The best way to keep kids from eating junk food or other unhealthy snacks is to avoid having these foods in your house.
      * Never allowing any unhealthy snacks or sweets may result in your child sneaking these foods. It is OK to let your child have an unhealthy snack once in a while. The key is balance. 

Help your children avoid tempting foods.

      * If you have foods like cookies, chips, or ice cream in your house, store them where they are hard to see or reach. Put ice cream at the back of the freezer and chips on a high shelf.
      * Move the healthier foods to the front, at eye level.
      * If your family snacks while watching TV, put a portion of the food in a bowl or on a plate for each person. It is easy to overeat straight from the package. 

## What to do at School

School children can put pressure on each other to make poor food choices.
Also, many schools do not provide healthy food choices.

Teach your children to avoid the sugary drinks in vending machines at school.
Have your children bring their own water bottle to school to encourage them to
drink water.

Pack a lunch from home for your child to bring to school. Add an extra healthy
snack your child can share with a friend.

## Images

      * ![Fast food](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19491t.jpg)Fast food

## References

Gahagan S. Overweight and obesity. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah
SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 60.

Hoelscher DM, Kirk S, Ritchie L, Cunningham-Sabo L; Academy Positions
Committee. Position of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics: interventions
for the prevention and treatment of pediatric overweight and obesity. _J Acad
Nutr Diet_. 2013;113(10):1375-1394. PMID: 24054714
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24054714.

Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM. Obesity. In: Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM, eds.
_Nelson Essentials of Pediatrics_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 29.

Martos-Flier E. Appetite regulation and thermogenesis. In: Jameson JL, De
Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 25.

## Review Date 5/17/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * High Cholesterol in Children and Teens

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

