Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000770.htm    
                                Description: Huntington disease (HD) is a genetic disorder in which nerve cells in certain parts of the brain waste away, or degenerate. The disease is passed down through families.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Huntington disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000770.htm

# Huntington disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Huntington disease (HD) is a genetic disorder in which nerve cells in certain
parts of the brain waste away, or degenerate. The disease is passed down
through families.

## Causes

HD is caused by a genetic defect on chromosome 4. The defect causes a part of
DNA to occur many more times than it is supposed to. This defect is called a
CAG repeat. Normally, this section of DNA is repeated 10 to 28 times. But in
persons with HD, it is repeated 36 to 120 times.

As the gene is passed down through families, the number of repeats tends to
get larger. The larger the number of repeats, the higher a person's chance of
developing symptoms at an earlier age. Therefore, as the disease is passed
along in families, symptoms develop at younger and younger ages.

There are two forms of HD:

      * Adult-onset is the most common. Persons with this form usually develop symptoms in their mid-30s or 40s.
      * Early-onset affects a small number of people and begins in childhood or the teens. 

If one of your parents has HD, you have a 50% chance of getting the gene. If
you get the gene from your parents, you can pass it on to your children, who
will also have a 50% chance of getting the gene. If you do not get the gene
from your parents, you cannot pass the gene on to your children.

## Symptoms

Abnormal behaviors may occur before movement problems develop, and can
include:

      * Behavioral disturbances
      * Hallucinations
      * Irritability
      * Moodiness
      * Restlessness or fidgeting
      * Paranoia
      * Psychosis

Abnormal and unusual movements include:

      * Facial movements, including grimaces
      * Head turning to shift eye position
      * Quick, sudden, sometimes wild jerking movements of the arms, legs, face, and other body parts
      * Slow, uncontrolled movements
      * Unsteady gait, including "prancing" and wide walk

Abnormal movements can lead to falls.

Dementia that slowly gets worse, including:

      * Disorientation or confusion
      * Loss of judgment
      * Loss of memory
      * Personality changes
      * Speech changes, such as pauses while talking 

Additional symptoms that may be associated with this disease include:

      * Anxiety, stress, and tension
      * Difficulty swallowing
      * Speech impairment 

Symptoms in children:

      * Rigidity
      * Slow movements
      * Tremor 

## Exams and Tests

TheÂ health care providerÂ will perform a physical exam and may ask about the
patient's family history and symptoms. An exam of the nervous system will also
be done.

Other tests that may show signs of Huntington disease include:

      * Psychological testing
      * Head CT or MRI scan
      * PET (isotope) scan of the brain 

Genetic testing is available to determine whether a person carries the gene
for Huntington disease.

## Treatment

There is no cure for HD. There is no known way to stop the disease from
getting worse. The goal of treatment is to slow the symptoms and help the
person function for as long as possible.

Medicines can be prescribed, depending on the symptoms.

      * Dopamine blockers may help reduce abnormal behaviors and movements.
      * Drugs such as amantadine and tetrabenazine are used to try to control extra movements. 

Depression and suicide are common among persons with HD. It is important for
caregiversÂ to monitor for symptoms and seek medical help forÂ the person
right away.

As the disease progresses, the person will need assistance and supervision,
and may eventually need 24-hour care.

## Support Groups

These resources can provide more information on HD:

      * Huntington's Disease Society of America -- hdsa.org
      * NIH Genetics Home Reference -- ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/huntington-disease

## Outlook (Prognosis)

HD causes disability that gets worse over time. People with HD usually die
within 15 to 20 years. The cause of death is often infection. Suicide is also
common.

It is important to realize that HD affects people differently. The number of
CAG repeats may determine the severity of symptoms. People with few repeats
may have mild abnormal movements later in life and slow disease progression.
Those with a large number of repeats may be severely affected at a young age.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you or a family member develops symptoms of HD.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling is advised if there is a family history of HD. Experts also
recommend genetic counseling for couples with a family history of this disease
who are considering having children.

## Alternative Names

Huntington chorea

## References

Caron NS, Wright GEB, Hayden MR. Huntington disease. In: Adam MP, Ardinger HH,
Pagon RA, et al, eds. _GeneReviews_. Seattle, WA: University of Washington.
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK1305. Updated July 5, 2018. Accessed May 30,
2019.

Jankovic J. Parkinson disease and other movement disorders. In: Daroff RB,
Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical
Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 96.

## Review Date 5/26/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Huntington's
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HuntingtonsDisease_thumb.jpg)Huntington's
Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

