Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000924.htm    
                                Description: Panic disorder is a type of anxiety disorder in which you have repeated attacks of intense fear that something bad will happen.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Panic disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000924.htm

# Panic disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Panic disorder is a type of anxiety disorder in which you have repeated
attacks of intense fear that something bad will happen.

## Causes

The cause is unknown. Genes may play a role. Other family members may have the
disorder. But panic disorder often occurs when there is no family history.

Panic disorder is twice as common in women as it is in men. Symptoms often
begin before age 25 but may occur in the mid-30s. Children can also have panic
disorder, but it is often not diagnosed until they are older.

## Symptoms

A panic attack begins suddenly, and most often peaks within 10 to 20 minutes.
Some symptoms continue for an hour or more. A panic attack may be mistaken for
a heart attack.

A person with panic disorder often lives in fear of another attack, and may be
afraid to be alone or far from medical help.

People with panic disorder have at least 4 of the following symptoms during an
attack:

      * Chest pain or discomfort
      * Dizziness or feeling faint 
      * Fear of dying
      * Fear of losing control or impending doom
      * Feeling of choking
      * Feelings of detachment
      * Feelings of unreality
      * Nausea or upset stomach
      * Numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or face
      * Palpitations, fast heart rate, or pounding heart
      * Sensation of shortness of breath or smothering
      * Sweating, chills, or hot flashes
      * Trembling or shaking

Panic attacks may change behavior and function at home, school, or work.
People with the disorder often worry about the effects of their panic attacks.

People with panic disorder may abuse alcohol or other drugs. They may feel sad
or depressed.

Panic attacks cannot be predicted. At least in the early stages of the
disorder, there is no trigger that starts the attack. Recalling a past attack
may trigger panic attacks.

## Exams and Tests

Many people with panic disorder first seek treatment in the emergency room.
This is because the panic attack often feels like a heart attack.

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and a mental health
assessment.

Blood tests will be done. Other medical disorders must be ruled out before
panic disorder can be diagnosed. Disorders related to substance use will be
considered because symptoms can resemble panic attacks.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to help you function well during everyday life. Using
both medicines and talk therapy works best.

Certain medicines, usually used to treat depression, may be very helpful for
this disorder. They work by preventing your symptoms or making them less
severe. You must take these medicines every day. DO NOT stop taking them
without talking with your provider.

Medicines called sedatives or hypnotics may also be prescribed.

      * These medicines should only be taken under a doctor's direction.
      * Your doctor will prescribe a limited amount of these drugs. They should not to be used every day.
      * They may be used when symptoms become very severe or when you are about to be exposed to something that always brings on your symptoms.
      * If you are prescribed a sedative, do not drink alcohol while on this medicine.

Talk therapy (cognitive-behavioral therapy, or CBT) helps you understand your
behaviors and how to change them. During therapy you will learn how to:

      * Understand and control distorted views of life stressors, such as other people's behavior or life events.
      * Recognize and replace thoughts that cause panic and decrease the sense of helplessness.
      * Manage stress and relax when symptoms occur.
      * Imagine the things that cause the anxiety, starting with the least fearful. Practice in real-life situations to help you overcome your fears.

The following may also help reduce the number or severity of panic attacks:

      * Not drinking alcohol
      * Eating at regular times
      * Getting plenty of exercise
      * Getting enough sleep
      * Reducing or avoiding caffeine, certain cold medicines, and stimulants

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of having panic disorder by joining a support group.
Sharing with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not
feel alone.

Support groups are usually not a good substitute for talk therapy or taking
medicine but can be a helpful addition.

Resources for more information include:

Anxiety and Depression Association of America -- adaa.org

National Institute of Mental Health --
www.nimh.nih.gov/health/publications/panic-disorder-when-fear-
overwhelms/index.shtml

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Panic disorders may be long-lasting and hard to treat. Some people with this
disorder may not be cured. But most people get better when treated correctly.

People with panic disorder are more likely to:

      * Abuse alcohol or illegal drugs
      * Be unemployed or less productive at work
      * Have difficult personal relationships, including marriage problems
      * Become isolated by limiting where they go or who they are around 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if panic attacks are interfering
with your work, relationships, or self-esteem.

Call 911 or see your provider right away if you develop suicidal thoughts.

## Prevention

If you get panic attacks, avoid the following:

      * Alcohol
      * Stimulants such as caffeine and cocaine 

These substances may trigger or worsen the symptoms.

## Alternative Names

Panic attacks; Anxiety attacks; Fear attacks; Anxiety disorder - panic attacks

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Anxiety disorders. In: American Psychiatric
Association, ed. _Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders_. 5th
ed. Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing; 2013:189-234.

Calkins AW, Bui E, Taylor CT, Pollack MH, LeBeau RT, Simon NM. Anxiety
disorders. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts
General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 32.

Lyness JM. Psychiatric disorders in medical practice. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 397.

## Review Date 3/26/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Anxiety](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anxiety_thumb.jpg)Panic Disorder
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

