Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001573.htm    
                                Description: Osteogenesis imperfecta is a condition causing extremely fragile bones.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Osteogenesis imperfecta

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001573.htm

# Osteogenesis imperfecta

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Osteogenesis imperfecta is a condition causing extremely fragile bones.

## Causes

Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) is present at birth. It is often caused by a
defect in the gene that produces type 1 collagen, an important building block
of bone. There are many defects that can affect this gene. The severity of OI
depends on the specific gene defect.

If you have 1 copy of the gene, you will have the disease. Most cases of OI
are inherited from a parent. However, some cases are the result of new genetic
mutations.

A person with OI has a 50% chance of passing on the gene and the disease to
their children.

## Symptoms

All people with OI have weak bones, and fractures are more likely. People with
OI are most often below average height (short stature). However, the severity
of the disease varies greatly.

The classic symptoms include:

      * Blue tint to the whites of their eyes (blue sclera)
      * Multiple bone fractures
      * Early hearing loss (deafness)

Because type I collagen is also found in ligaments, people with OI often have
loose joints (hypermobility) and flat feet. Some types of OI also lead to the
development of poor teeth.

Symptoms of more severe forms of OI may include:

      * Bowed legs and arms
      * Kyphosis
      * Scoliosis (S-curve spine)

## Exams and Tests

OI is most often suspected in children whose bones break with very little
force. A physical exam may show that the whites of their eyes have a blue
tint.

A definitive diagnosis may be made using a skin punch biopsy. Family members
may be given a DNA blood test.

If there is a family history of OI, chorionic villus sampling  may be done
during pregnancy to determine if the baby has the condition. However, because
so many different mutations can cause OI, some forms cannot be diagnosed with
a genetic test.

The severe form of type II OI can be seen on ultrasound when the fetus is as
young as 16 weeks.

## Treatment

There is not yet a cure for this disease. However, specific therapies can
reduce the pain and complications from OI.

Drugs that can increase the strength and density of bone are used in people
with OI. They have been shown to reduce bone pain and fracture rate
(especially in the bones of the spine). They are called bisphosphonates.

Low impact exercises, such as swimming, keep muscles strong and help maintain
strong bones. People with OI can benefit from these exercises and should be
encouraged to do them.

In more severe cases, surgery to place metal rods into the long bones of the
legs may be considered. This procedure can strengthen the bone and reduce the
risk for fracture. Bracing can also be helpful for some people.

Surgery may be needed to correct any deformities. This treatment is important
because deformities (such as bowed legs or a spinal problem) can interfere
with a person's ability to move or walk.

Even with treatment, fractures will occur. Most fractures heal quickly. Time
in a cast should be limited, because bone loss may occur when you do not use a
part of your body for a period of time.

Many children with OI develop body image problems as they enter their teenage
years. A social worker or psychologist can help them adapt to life with OI.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does depends on the type of OI they have.

      * Type I, or mild OI, is the most common form. People with this type can live a normal lifespan.
      * Type II is a severe form that often leads to death in the first year of life.
      * Type III is also called severe OI. People with this type have many fractures starting very early in life and can have severe bone deformities. Many people need to use a wheelchair and often have a somewhat shortened life expectancy.
      * Type IV, or moderately severe OI, is similar to type I, although people with type IV often need braces or crutches to walk. Life expectancy is normal or near normal. 

There are other types of OI, but they occur very rarely and most are
considered subtypes of the moderately severe form (type IV).

## Possible Complications

Complications are largely based on the type of OI present. They are often
directly related to the problems with weak bones and multiple fractures.

Complications may include:

      * Hearing loss (common in type I and type III)
      * Heart failure (type II)
      * Respiratory problems and pneumonias due to chest wall deformities
      * Spinal cord or brain stem problems
      * Permanent deformity 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Severe forms are most often diagnosed early in life, but mild cases may not be
noted until later in life. See your health care provider if you or your child
have symptoms of this condition.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling is recommended for couples considering pregnancy if there
is a personal or family history of this condition.

## Alternative Names

Brittle bone disease; Congenital disease; OI

## Images

      * ![Pectus excavatum](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2927t.jpg)Pectus excavatum

## References

Deeney VF, Arnold J. Orthopedics. In: Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds.
_Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 22.

Marini JC. Osteogenesis imperfecta. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ,
Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 721.

Son-Hing JP, Thompson GH. Congenital abnormalities of the upper and lower
extremities and spine. In: Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff
and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 99.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Osteogenesis
Imperfecta](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OsteogenesisImperfecta_thumb.jpg)Osteogenesis
Imperfecta _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

