Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007386.htm    
                                Description: Hip fracture surgery is done to repair a break in the upper part of the thigh bone. The thigh bone is called the femur. It is part of the hip joint.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hip fracture surgery

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007386.htm

# Hip fracture surgery

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hip fracture surgery is done to repair a break in the upper part of the thigh
bone. The thigh bone is called the femur. It is part of the hip joint.

Hip pain is a related topic.

## Description

You may receive general anesthesia for this surgery. This means you will be
unconscious and unable to feel pain. You may have spinal anesthesia. With this
kind of anesthesia, medicine is put into your back to make you numb below your
waist. You may also receive anesthesia through your veins to make you sleepy
during the surgery.

The type of surgery you have depends on the kind of fracture you have.

If your fracture is in the neck of the femur (the part just below the top of
the bone) you may have a hip pinning procedure. During this surgery:

      * You lie on a special table. This allows your surgeon to use an x-ray machine to see how well the parts of your hip bone line up.
      * The surgeon makes a small incision (cut) on the side of your thigh.
      * Special screws are placed to hold the bones in their correct position.
      * This surgery takes 2 to 4 hours. 

If you have an intertrochanteric fracture (the area below the femur neck),
your surgeon will use a special metal plate and special compression screws to
repair it. Often, more than one piece of bone is broken in this type of
fracture. During this surgery:

      * You lie on a special table. This allows your surgeon to use an x-ray machine to see how well the parts of your hip bone line up.
      * The surgeon makes a surgical cut on the side of your thigh.
      * The metal plate or nail is attached with a few screws.
      * This surgery takes 2 to 4 hours. 

Your surgeon may perform a partial hip replacement (hemiarthroplasty) if there
is concern that your hip will not heal well using one of the procedures above.
Hemiarthroplasty replaces the ball part of your hip joint.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

If a hip fracture is not treated, you may need to stay in a chair or bed for a
few months until the fracture is healed. This can lead to life-threatening
medical problems, especially if you are older. Surgery is often recommended
because of these risks.

## Risks

Following are risks of surgery:

      * Avascular necrosis. This is when the blood supply in part of the femur is cut off for a period of time. This can cause part of the bone to die.
      * Injury to nerves or blood vessels.
      * Parts of the hip bone may not join together at all or in the correct position.
      * Blood clots in the legs or lungs.
      * Mental confusion (dementia). Older adults who fracture a hip may already have problems thinking clearly. Sometimes, surgery can make this problem worse.
      * Pressure sores (pressure ulcers or bed sores) from being in bed or a chair for long periods. 
      * Infection. This may require you to take antibiotics or have more surgeries to eradicate the infection.

## Before the Procedure

You will likely be admitted to the hospital because of a hip fracture. You
probably will not be able to put any weight on your leg or get out of bed.

Tell your health care provider what medicines you are taking. This includes
medicines, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription.

On the day of the surgery:

      * You will likely be asked not to drink or eat anything after midnight before your surgery. This includes chewing gum and breath mints. Rinse your mouth with water if it feels dry, but do not swallow.
      * Take the medicines your provider told you to take with a small sip of water.
      * If you are going to the hospital from home, be sure to arrive at the scheduled time. 

## After the Procedure

You will stay in the hospital for 3 to 5 days. Full recovery will take from 3
to 4 months to a year.

After surgery:

      * You will have an IV (a catheter, or tube, that is inserted into a vein, usually in your arm). You will receive fluids through the IV until you are able to drink on your own.
      * Special compression stockings on your legs help improve blood flow in your legs. These reduce your risk of getting blood clots, which are more common after hip surgery.
      * Your doctor will prescribe pain medicines. Your doctor may also prescribe antibiotics to prevent infection.
      * You may have a catheter inserted into your bladder to drain urine. It will be removed when you are ready to start urinating on your own. Most of the time, it is removed 2 or 3 days after surgery.
      * You may be taught deep breathing and coughing exercises using a device called a spirometer. Doing these exercises will help prevent pneumonia. 

You will be encouraged to start moving and walking as soon as the first day
after surgery. Most of the problems that develop after hip fracture surgery
can be prevented by getting out of bed and walking as soon as possible.

      * You will be helped out of bed to a chair on the first day after surgery.
      * You will start walking with crutches or a walker. You will be asked not to place too much weight on the leg that was operated on.
      * When you are in bed, bend and straighten your ankles often to increase blood flow to help prevent blood clots. 

You will be able to go home when:

      * You can move around safely with a walker or crutches.
      * You are correctly doing the exercises to strengthen your hip and leg.
      * Your home is ready. 

Follow any instructions you are given about how to care for yourself at home.

Some people need a short stay in a rehabilitation center after they leave the
hospital and before they go home. At a rehabilitation center, you will learn
how to safely do your daily activities on your own.

You might need to use crutches or a walker for a few weeks or months after
surgery.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

You will do better if you get out of bed and start moving as soon as you can
after your surgery. Health problems that develop after this surgery are often
caused by being inactive.

Your provider will help you decide when it is safe for you to go home after
this surgery.

You should also talk to your provider about reasons you had the fall and ways
to prevent future falls.

## Alternative Names

Inter-trochanteric fracture repair; Subtrochanteric fracture repair; Femoral
neck fracture repair; Trochanteric fracture repair; Hip pinning surgery;
Osteoarthritis - hip

## Patient Instructions

      * Getting your home ready - knee or hip surgery
      * Hip fracture - discharge 

## References

Goulet JA. Hip dislocations. In: Browner BD, Jupiter JB, Krettek C, Anderson
PA, eds. _Skeletal Trauma: Basic Science, Management, and Reconstruction_. 5th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 52.

Leslie MP, Baumgaertner MR. Intertrochanteric hip fractures. In: Browner BD,
Jupiter JB, Krettek C, Anderson PA, eds. _Skeletal Trauma: Basic Science,
Management, and Reconstruction_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 55.

Schuur JD, Cooper Z. Geriatric trauma. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 184.

Weinlein JC. Fractures and dislocations of the hip. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH,
Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 55.

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hip Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HipInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Hip
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

