Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000168.htm    
                                Description: Hip fracture surgery is done to repair a break in the upper part of your thigh bone. This article tells you how to take care of yourself when you go home from the hospital.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hip fracture - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000168.htm

# Hip fracture - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hip fracture surgery is done to repair a break in the upper part of your thigh
bone. This article tells you how to take care of yourself when you go home
from the hospital.

## When You're in the Hospital

You were in the hospital for surgery to repair a hip fracture, a break in the
upper part of your thigh bone. You may have had hip pinning surgery or a
special metal plate or rod with screws, called compression screws or nails,
put in place. Alternatively, you may have had a hip replacement to replace
your hip joint.

You should have received physical therapy while you were in the hospital or at
a rehabilitation center before going home from the hospital.

## What to Expect at Home

Most of the problems that develop after hip fracture surgery can be prevented
by getting out of bed and walking as soon as possible. For this reason, it is
very important to stay active and follow the instructions your health care
provider gave you.

You may have bruises around your incision. These will go away. It is normal
for the skin around your incision to be a little red. It is also normal to
have a small amount of watery or dark bloody fluid draining from your incision
for several days.

It is not normal to have foul smell or drainage that last more than the first
3 to 4 days after surgery. It is also not normal when the wound starts to hurt
more after leaving the hospital.

## Activity

Do the exercises your physical therapist taught you. Ask your provider how
much weight you can put on your leg. You should be using crutches and walker
when you leave the hospital. Your provider and physical therapist will help
you decide when you do not need crutches, a cane, or a walker anymore.

Ask your provider or physical therapist about when to start using a stationary
bicycle and swimming as extra exercises to build your muscles and bones.

Try not to sit for more than 45 minutes at a time without getting up and
moving around.

      * DO NOT sit in low chairs or soft sofas that put your knees higher than your hips. Choose chairs with arm rests to make it easier to stand up.
      * Sit with your feet flat on the floor, and point your feet and legs outward a little. DO NOT cross your legs. 

DO NOT bend at the waist or the hips when you put your shoes and socks on. DO
NOT bend down to pick up things from the floor.

Use a raised toilet seat for the first couple of weeks. Your provider will
tell you when it is OK to use a regular toilet seat. DO NOT sleep on your
stomach or on the side you had your surgery.

## Home Setup

Have a bed that is low enough so that your feet touch the floor when you sit
on the edge of the bed.

Keep tripping hazards out of your home.

      * Learn to prevent falls. Remove loose wires or cords from areas you walk through to get from one room to another. Remove loose throw rugs. DO NOT keep small pets in your home. Fix any uneven flooring in doorways. Use good lighting.
      * Make your bathroom safe. Put hand rails in the bathtub or shower and next to the toilet. Place a slip-proof mat in the bathtub or shower.
      * DO NOT carry anything when you are walking around. You may need your hands to help you balance. 

Put things where they are easy to reach.

Set up your home so that you do not have to climb steps. Some tips are:

      * Set up a bed or use a bedroom on the first floor.
      * Have a bathroom or a portable commode on the same floor where you spend most of your day. 

If you do not have someone to help you at home for the first 1 to 2 weeks, ask
your provider about having a trained caregiver come to your home to help you.

## Wound Care

You may start showering again when your provider says it is OK. After you
shower, gently pat the incision area dry with a clean towel. DO NOT rub it
dry.

DO NOT soak your wound in a bathtub, swimming pool, or hot tub until your
provider says it is OK.

Change your dressing (bandage) over your incision every day if your provider
says it is OK. Gently wash the wound with soap and water and pat it dry.

Check your incision for any signs of infection at least once a day. These
signs include:

      * More redness
      * More drainage
      * When the wound is opening up 

## Other Self-care

To prevent another fracture, do everything you can to make your bones strong.

      * Ask your provider to check you for osteoporosis (thin, weak bones) after you have healed from your surgery and are able to do more tests. There may be treatments that can help with weak bone.
      * If you smoke, stop. Ask your provider for help quitting. Smoking will keep your bone from healing.
      * Tell your provider if you drink alcohol regularly. You might have a bad reaction from taking pain medicine and drinking alcohol. Alcohol may also make it harder to recover from surgery. 

Keep wearing the compression stockings you used in the hospital until your
provider says you can stop. Wearing them for at least 2 or 3 weeks may help
reduce clots after surgery. You may also be given a blood thinner. This may be
in pill form or by injection.

If you have pain, take the pain medicines you were prescribed. Getting up and
moving around can also help reduce your pain.

If you have problems with your eyesight or hearing, get them checked.

Be careful not to get pressure sores (also called pressure ulcers or bed
sores) from staying in bed or a chair for long periods of time.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have:

      * Shortness of breath or chest pain when you breathe
      * Frequent urination or burning when you urinate
      * Redness or increasing pain around your incision
      * Drainage from your incision
      * Swelling in one of your legs (it will be red and warmer than the other leg)
      * Pain in your calf
      * Fever higher than 101Â°F (38.3Â°C)
      * Pain that is not controlled by your pain medicines
      * Nosebleeds or blood in your urine or stools, if you are taking blood thinners 

## Alternative Names

Inter-trochanteric fracture repair - discharge; Subtrochanteric fracture
repair - discharge; Femoral neck fracture repair - discharge; Trochanteric
fracture repair - discharge; Hip pinning surgery - discharge

## References

Ly TV, Swiontkowski MF. Intracapsular hip fractures. In: Browner BD, Jupiter
JB, Krettek C, Anderson PA, eds. _Skeletal Trauma: Basic Science, Management,
and Reconstruction_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap
54.

Weinlein JC. Fractures and dislocations of the hip. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH,
Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 55.

## Read More

      * Broken bone
      * Hip fracture surgery
      * Hip pain
      * Leg MRI scan
      * Osteoporosis - overview

## Patient Instructions

      * Getting your home ready - knee or hip surgery
      * Osteomyelitis - discharge

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Hip Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

