Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007633.htm    
                                Description: A hip injection is a shot of medicine into the hip joint. The medicine can help relieve pain and inflammation. It can also help diagnose the source of hip pain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hip joint injection

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007633.htm

# Hip joint injection

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A hip injection is a shot of medicine into the hip joint. The medicine can
help relieve pain and inflammation. It can also help diagnose the source of
hip pain.

## Description

For this procedure, a health care provider inserts a needle in the hip and
injects medicine into the joint. The provider uses a real-time x-ray
(fluoroscopy) to see where to place the needle in the joint.

You may be given medicine to help you relax.

For the procedure:

      * You will lie on the x-ray table, and your hip area will be cleaned.
      * A numbing medicine will be applied to the injection site.
      * A small needle will be guided into the joint area while the provider watches the placement on the x-ray screen.
      * Once the needle is in the right spot, a small amount of contrast dye is injected so the provider can see where to place the medicine.
      * The steroid medicine is slowly injected into the joint. 

After the injection, you will remain on the table for another 5 to 10 minutes.
Your provider will then ask you to move the hip to see if it is still painful.
The hip joint will become more painful afterwards when the numbing medicine
has worn off. It may be a few days before you notice any pain relief.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Hip injection is done to reduce hip pain caused by problems in the bones or
cartilage of your hip. The hip pain is often caused by:

      * Bursitis
      * Arthritis
      * Labral tear (a tear in the cartilage that is attached to the rim of the hip socket bone)
      * Injury to the hip joint or surrounding area
      * Overuse or strain from running or other activities

A hip injection can also help diagnose hip pain. If the shot does not relieve
pain within a few days, then the hip joint may not be the source of hip pain.

## Risks

Risks are rare, but may include:

      * Bruising
      * Swelling
      * Skin irritation
      * Allergic reaction to medicine 
      * Infection
      * Bleeding in the joint
      * Weakness in the leg

## Before the Procedure

Tell your provider about:

      * Any health problems
      * Any allergiesÂ 
      * Medicines you take, including over-the-counter medicines
      * Any blood thinner medicines, such as aspirin, warfarin (Coumadin), dabigatran (Pradaxa), apixaban (Eliquis), rivaroxaban (Xarelto), or clopidogrel (Plavix) 

Plan ahead to have someone drive you home after the procedure.

## After the Procedure

After the injection, follow any specific instructions your provider gives you.
These may include:

      * Applying ice on your hip if you have swelling or pain (wrap the ice in a towel to protect your skin)
      * Avoiding strenuous activity the day of the procedure
      * Taking pain medicines as directed

You may resume most normal activities the next day.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people feel less pain after a hip injection.

      * You may notice reduced pain 15 to 20 minutes after the injection.
      * Pain may return in 4 to 6 hours as the numbing medicine wears off.
      * As the steroid medicine begins to take affect 2 to 7 days later, your hip joint should feel less painful. 

You may need more than one injection. How long the shot lasts varies from
person to person, and depends on the cause of the pain. For some, it can last
weeks or months.

## Alternative Names

Cortisone shot - hip; Hip injection; Intra-articular steroid injections - hip

## References

American College of Rheumatology website. Joint injections (joint
aspirations). www.rheumatology.org/I-Am-A/Patient-Caregiver/Treatments/Joint-
Injection-Aspiration. Updated June 2018. Accessed December 10, 2018.

Naredo E, MÃ¶ller I, Rull M. Aspiration and injection of joints and
periarticular tissue and intralesional therapy. In: Hochberg MC, Gravallese
EM, Silman AJ, Smolen JS, Weinblatt ME, Weisman MH, eds. _Rheumatology_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 44.

Zayat AS, Buch M, Wakefield RJ. Arthrocentesis and injection of joints and
soft tissue. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC, Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR,
eds. _Kelly and Firestein's Textbook of Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 54.

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hip Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HipInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Hip
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

