Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000972.htm    
                                Description: A slipped capital femoral epiphysis is a separation of the ball of the hip joint from the thigh bone (femur) at the upper growing end (growth plate) of the bone.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Slipped capital femoral epiphysis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000972.htm

# Slipped capital femoral epiphysis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A slipped capital femoral epiphysis is a separation of the ball of the hip
joint from the thigh bone (femur) at the upper growing end (growth plate) of
the bone.

## Causes

A slipped capital femoral epiphysis may affect both hips.

An epiphysis is an area at the end of a long bone. It is separated from the
main part of the bone by the growth plate. In this condition, the problem
occurs in the upper area while the bone is still growing.

Slipped capital femoral epiphysis occurs in about 2 out of every 100,000
children. It is more common in:

      * Growing children ages 11 to 15,Â especially boys
      * Children who are obese
      * Children who are growing rapidly

Children with hormone imbalances caused by other conditions are at higher risk
for this disorder.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Difficulty walking, walking with a limp that came on quickly
      * Knee pain
      * Hip pain
      * Hip stiffness
      * Outward-turning leg
      * Restricted hip movements 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you. A hip or pelvis x-ray can confirm
this condition.

## Treatment

Surgery to stabilize the bone with pins or screws will prevent the ball of the
hip joint from slipping or moving out of place. Some surgeons may suggest
using pins on the other hip at the same time. This is because many children
will develop this problem in that hip later.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is most often good with treatment. In rare cases, the hip joint
may wear away, despite prompt diagnosis and treatment.

## Possible Complications

This disorder is linked to a greater risk of osteoarthritis later in life.
Other potential but rare complications include reduced blood flow to the hip
joint and wearing away of hip joint tissue.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If your child has ongoing pain or other symptoms of this disorder, have the
child lie down right away and stay still until you get medical help.

## Prevention

Weight control for obese children may be helpful. Many cases are not
preventable.

## Alternative Names

Femoral epiphysis - slipped

## References

Sankar WN, Horn BD, Wells L, Dormans JP. The hip. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF,
St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 678.

Sawyer JR, Spence DD. Fractures and dislocations in children. In: Azar FM,
Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 36.

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hip Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HipInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Hip
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

