Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000971.htm    
                                Description: Developmental dysplasia of the hip (DDH) is a dislocation of the hip joint that is present at birth. The condition is found in babies or young children.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Developmental dysplasia of the hip

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000971.htm

# Developmental dysplasia of the hip

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Developmental dysplasia of the hip (DDH) is a dislocation of the hip joint
that is present at birth. The condition is found in babies or young children.

## Causes

The hip is a ball and socket joint. The ball is called the femoral head. It
forms the top part of the thigh bone (femur). The socket (acetabulum) forms in
the pelvic bone.

In some newborns, the socket is too shallow and the ball (thigh bone) may slip
out of the socket, either part of the way or completely. One or both hips may
be involved.

The cause is unknown. Low levels of amniotic fluid in the womb during
pregnancy can increase a baby's risk for DDH. Other risk factors include:

      * Being the first child
      * Being female
      * Breech position during pregnancy, in which the baby's bottom is down
      * Family history of the disorder
      * Large birth weight 

DDH occurs in about 1 to 1.5 of 1,000 births.

## Symptoms

There may be no symptoms. Symptoms that may occur in a newborn can include:

      * Leg with hip problem may appear to turn out more
      * Reduced movement on the side of the body with the dislocation
      * Shorter leg on the side with the hip dislocation
      * Uneven skin folds of thigh or buttocks 

After 3 months of age, the affected leg may turn outward or be shorter than
the other leg.

Once the child begins walking, symptoms can include:

      * Waddling or limping while walking
      * One shorter leg, so the child walks on their toes on one side and not the other side
      * The child's lower back is rounded inward

## Exams and Tests

Pediatric health care providers routinely screen all newborns and infants for
hip dysplasia. There are several methods to detect a dislocated hip or a hip
that is able to be dislocated.

The most common method of identifying the condition is a physical exam of the
hips, which involves applying pressure while moving the hips. The provider
listens for any clicks, clunks, or pops.

Ultrasound of the hip is used in younger infants to confirm the problem. An
x-ray of the hip joint may help diagnose the condition in older infants and
children.

A hip that is truly dislocated in an infant should be detected at birth, but
some cases are mild and symptoms may not develop until after birth, which is
why multiple exams are recommended. Some mild cases are silent and cannot be
found during a physical exam.

## Treatment

When the problem is found during the first 6 months of life, a device or
harness is used to keep the legs apart and turned outward (frog-leg position).
This device will most often hold the hip joint in place while the child grows.

This harness works for most infants when it is started before age 6 months,
but it is less likely to work for older children.

Children who do not improve or who are diagnosed after 6 months often need
surgery. After surgery, a cast will be placed on the child's leg for a period
of time.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If hip dysplasia is found in the first few months of life, it can almost
always be treated successfully with a positioning device (bracing). In a few
cases, surgery is needed to put the hip back in joint.

Hip dysplasia that is found after early infancy may lead to a worse outcome
and may need more complex surgery to fix the problem.

## Possible Complications

Bracing devices may cause skin irritation. Differences in the lengths of the
legs may persist despite appropriate treatment.

Untreated, hip dysplasia will lead to arthritis and deterioration of the hip,
which can be severely debilitating.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you suspect that your child's hip is not properly
positioned.

## Alternative Names

Developmental dislocation of the hip joint; Developmental hip dysplasia; DDH;
Congenital dysplasia of the hip; Congenital dislocation of the hip; CDH;
Pavlik harness

## Images

      * ![Congenital hip dislocation](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9216t.jpg)Congenital hip dislocation

## References

Kelly DM. Congenital and developmental abnormalities of the hip and pelvis.
In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_.
13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 30.

Sankar WN, Horn BD, Wells L, Dormans JP. The hip. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF,
St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 678.

Son-Hing JP, Thompson GH. Congenital abnormalities of the upper and lower
extremities and spine. In: Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff
and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 107.

## Review Date 3/6/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hip Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HipInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Hip
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

