Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001264.htm    
                                Description: Legg-Calve-Perthes disease occurs when the ball of the thigh bone in the hip does not get enough blood, causing the bone to die.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Legg-Calve-Perthes disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001264.htm

# Legg-Calve-Perthes disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Legg-Calve-Perthes disease occurs when the ball of the thigh bone in the hip
does not get enough blood, causing the bone to die.

## Causes

Legg-Calve-Perthes disease usually occurs in boys 4 through 10 years old.
There are many theories about the cause of this disease, but little is
actually known.

Without enough blood to the area, the bone dies. The ball of the hip collapses
and becomes flat. Most often, only one hip is affected, although it can occur
on both sides.

The blood supply returns over several months, bringing in new bone cells. The
new cells gradually replace the dead bone over 2 to 3 years.

## Symptoms

The first symptom is often limping, which is usually painless. Sometimes there
may be mild pain that comes and goes.

Other symptoms may include:

      * Hip stiffness that limits hip movement
      * Knee pain
      * Limited range of motion
      * Thigh or groin pain that does not go away
      * Shortening of the leg, or legs of unequal length
      * Muscle loss in the upper thigh

## Exams and Tests

During a physical examination, the health care provider will look for a loss
in hip motion and a typical limp. A hip x-ray or pelvis x-ray may show signs
of Legg-Calve-Perthes disease. An MRI scan may be needed.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to keep the ball of the thigh bone inside the socket.
The provider may call this containment. The reason for doing this is to make
sure the hip continues to have good range of motion.

The treatment plan may involve:

      * A short period of bed rest to help with severe pain
      * Limiting the amount of weight placed on the leg by restricting activities such as running
      * Physical therapy to help keep the leg and hip muscles strong
      * Taking anti-inflammatory medicine, such as ibuprofen, to relieve stiffness in the hip joint
      * Wearing a cast or brace to help with containment
      * Using crutches or a walker 

Surgery may be needed if other treatments do not work. Surgery ranges from
lengthening a groin muscle to major hip surgery, called an osteotomy, to
reshape the pelvis. The exact type of surgery depends on the severity of the
problem and the shape of the ball of the hip joint.

It is important for the child to have regular follow-up visits with the
provider and an orthopedic specialist.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outlook depends on the child's age and the severity of the disease.

Children younger than 6 years old who receive treatment are more likely to end
up with a normal hip joint. Children older than age 6 are more likely to end
up with a deformed hip joint, despite treatment, and may later develop
arthritis in that joint.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if a child develops any symptoms of
this disorder.

## Alternative Names

Coxa plana; Perthes disease

## Images

      * ![Blood supply to bone](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9734t.jpg)Blood supply to bone

## References

Canale ST. Osteochondrosis or epiphysitis and other miscellaneous affections.
In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_.
13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 32.

Deeney VF, Arnold J. Orthopedics. In: Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds.
_Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 22.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hip Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HipInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Hip
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

