Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003179.htm    
                                Description: Hip pain involves any pain in or around the hip joint. You may not feel pain from your hip directly over the hip area. You may feel it in your groin or pain in your thigh or knee.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hip pain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003179.htm

# Hip pain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hip pain involves any pain in or around the hip joint. You may not feel pain
from your hip directly over the hip area. You may feel it in your groin or
pain in your thigh or knee.

## Causes

Hip pain may be caused by problems in the bones or cartilage of your hip,
including:

      * Hip fractures \-- can cause sudden and acute hip pain. These injuries can be serious and lead to major problems.
      * Hip fractures -- more common as people get older because falls are more likely and your bones become weaker.
      * Infection in the bones or joints.
      * Osteonecrosis of the hip (necrosis from loss of blood supply to the bone).
      * Arthritis \-- often felt in the front part of the thigh or groin.
      * Labral tear of the hip.
      * Femoral acetabular impingement -- abnormal growth around your hip that is a precursor to hip arthritis. It can cause pain with movement and exercises. 

Pain in or around the hip may also be caused by problems such as:

      * Bursitis -- pain when getting up from a chair, walking, climbing stairs, and driving
      * Hamstring strain
      * Iliotibial band syndrome
      * Hip flexor strain
      * Hip impingement syndrome
      * Groin strain
      * Snapping hip syndrome 

Pain you feel in the hip may reflect a problem in your back, rather than in
the hip itself.

## Home Care

Steps you can do to lessen hip pain include:

      * Try to avoid activities that make pain worse.
      * Take over-the-counter pain medicines, such as ibuprofen or acetaminophen.
      * Sleep on the side of your body that does not have pain. Put a pillow between your legs.
      * Lose weight if you are overweight. Ask your health care provider for help.
      * Try not to stand for long periods of time. If you must stand, do so on a soft, cushioned surface. Stand with an equal amount of weight on each leg.
      * Wear flat shoes that are cushioned and comfortable. 

Things you can do to avoid hip pain related to overuse or physical activity
include:

      * Always warm up before exercising and cool down afterward. Stretch your quadriceps and hamstrings.
      * Avoid running straight down hills. Walk down instead.
      * Swim instead of run or bicycle.
      * Run on a smooth, soft surface, such as a track. Avoid running on cement.
      * If you have flat feet, try special shoe inserts and arch supports (orthotics).
      * Make sure your running shoes are made well, fit well, and have good cushioning.
      * Cut down the amount of exercise you do. 

See your provider before exercising your hip if you think you may have
arthritis or have injured your hip.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to a hospital or get emergency help if:

      * Your hip pain is acute and caused by a serious fall or other injury.
      * Your leg is deformed, badly bruised, or bleeding.
      * You are unable to move your hip or bear any weight on your leg.

Call your provider if:

      * Your hip is still painful after 1 week of home treatment.
      * You also have a fever or rash.
      * You have sudden hip pain, plus sickle cell anemia or long-term steroid use.
      * You have pain in both hips and other joints. 
      * You start limping and have difficulty with stairs and gait.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a physical exam with careful attention to your
hips, thighs, back, and the way you walk. To help diagnose the cause of the
problem, your provider will ask questions about:

      * Where you feel the pain
      * When and how the pain started
      * Things that make the pain worse
      * What you have done to relieve the pain
      * Your ability to walk and support weight
      * Other medical problems you have
      * Medicines you take

You may need x-rays of your hip or an MRI scan.

Your provider may tell you to take a higher dose of over-the-counter medicine.
You may also need a prescription anti-inflammatory medicine.

## Alternative Names

Pain - hip

## Patient Instructions

      * Hip fracture - discharge 
      * Hip or knee replacement - after - what to ask your doctor 
      * Hip or knee replacement - before - what to ask your doctor 
      * Hip replacement - discharge 

## Images

      * ![Hip fracture](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18026t.jpg)Hip fracture
      * ![Arthritis in hip](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19678t.jpg)Arthritis in hip

## References

Chen AW, Domb BG. Hip diagnosis and decision-making. In: Miller MD, Thompson
SR, eds. _DeLee, Drez, & Miller's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 77.

Guyton JL. Hip pain in the young adult and hip preservation surgery. In: Azar
FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 6.

Huddleston JI, Goodman S. Hip and knee pain. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC,
Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelley and Firestein's Textbook of
Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 48.

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hip Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HipInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Hip
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

