Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000536.htm    
                                Description: The goal of palliative care is to help people with serious illnesses feel better. It prevents or treats symptoms and side effects of disease and treatment. Palliative care also treats emotional, social,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

What is palliative care?

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000536.htm

# What is palliative care?

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The goal of palliative care is to help people with serious illnesses feel
better. It prevents or treats symptoms and side effects of disease and
treatment. Palliative care also treats emotional, social, practical, and
spiritual problems that illnesses can bring up. When the person feels better
in these areas, they have an improved quality of life.

Palliative care can be given at the same time as treatments meant to cure or
treat the disease. Palliative care may be given when the illness is diagnosed,
throughout treatment, during follow-up, and at the end of life.

Palliative care may be offered for people with illnesses, such as:

      * Cancer
      * Heart disease
      * Lung diseases
      * Kidney failure
      * Dementia
      * HIV/AIDS
      * ALS (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis)

While receiving palliative care, people can remain under the care of their
regular provider and still receive treatment for their disease.

## Who Gives Palliative Care?

Any health care provider can give palliative care. But some providers
specialize in it. Palliative care may be given by:

      * A team of doctors
      * Nurses and nurse practitioners
      * Physician assistants
      * Registered dietitians
      * Social workers
      * Psychologists
      * Massage therapists
      * Chaplains 

Palliative care may be offered by hospitals, home care agencies, cancer
centers, and long-term care facilities. Your provider or hospital can give you
the names of palliative care specialists near you.

## The Difference Between Palliative Care and Hospice

Both palliative care and hospice care provide comfort. But palliative care can
begin at diagnosis, and at the same time as treatment. Hospice care begins
after treatment of the disease is stopped and when it is clear that the person
is not going to survive the illness.

Hospice care is most often offered only when the person is expected to live 6
months or less.

## What Does Palliative Care Include?

A serious illness affects more than just the body. It touches all areas of a
person's life, as well as lives of that person's family members. Palliative
care can address these effects of a person's illness.

 **Physical problems.** Symptoms or side effects include:

      * Pain
      * Trouble sleeping
      * Shortness of breath
      * Loss of appetite, and feeling sick to the stomach

Treatments may include:

      * Medicine
      * Nutritional guidance
      * Physical therapy
      * Occupational therapy
      * Integrative therapies

 **Emotional, social, and coping problems.** Patients and their families face
stress during illness that can lead to fear, anxiety, hopelessness, or
depression. Family members may take on care giving, even if they also have
jobs and other duties.

Treatments may include:

      * Counseling
      * Support groups
      * Family meetings
      * Referrals to mental health providers

 **Practical problems.** Some of the problems brought on by illness are
practical, such as money- or job-related problems, insurance questions, and
legal issues. A palliative care team may:

      * Explain complex medical forms or help families understand treatment choices
      * Provide or refer families to financial counseling
      * Help connect you to resources for transportation or housing

 **Spiritual issues.** When people are challenged by illness, they may look
for meaning or question their faith. A palliative care team may help patients
and families explore their beliefs and values so they can move toward
acceptance and peace.

## Learning More

Tell your provider what bothers and concerns you most, and what issues are
most important to you. Give your provider a copy of your living will or health
care proxy.

Ask your provider what palliative care services are available to you.
Palliative care is almost always covered by health insurance, including
Medicare or Medicaid. If you do not have health insurance, talk to a social
worker or the hospital's financial counselor.

Learn about your choices. Read about advance directives, deciding about
treatment that prolongs life, and choosing not to have CPR (do not resuscitate
orders).

## Alternative Names

Comfort care; End of life - palliative care; Hospice - palliative care

## References

House SA. Palliative and end-of-life care. In: Kellerman RD, Bope ET, eds.
_Conn's Current Therapy 2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:41-46.

Oxenham D. Palliative care and pain. In: Walker BR, Colledge NR, Ralston SH,
Penman ID, eds. _Davidson's Principles and Practice of Medicine_. 22nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2014:chap 12.

Rakel RE, Trinh TH. Care of the dying patient. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 5.

Schaefer KG, Abrahm JL, Wolfe J. Palliative care. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ,
Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 92.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Palliative Care

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

