Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000531.htm    
                                Description: It is normal for a person who has a very serious illness or who is dying not to feel like eating. Body systems that manage fluids and food may change at this time. They can slow and fail. Also, medicine    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Palliative care - fluid, food, and digestion

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000531.htm

# Palliative care - fluid, food, and digestion

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

It is normal for a person who has a very serious illness or who is dying not
to feel like eating. Body systems that manage fluids and food may change at
this time. They can slow and fail. Also, medicine that treats pain can cause
dry, hard stools that are difficult to pass.

## Palliative Care

Palliative care is a holistic approach to care that focuses on treating pain
and symptoms and improving quality of life in people with serious illnesses.

## When Your Body has Problems Handling Fluids and Food

You may experience any of the following:

      * Loss of appetite
      * Trouble chewing, caused by mouth or tooth pain, mouth sores, or a stiff or painful jaw
      * Constipation, which is fewer bowel movements than usual or hard stools
      * Nausea or vomiting 

## What you can do to Feel Better

Fluids:

      * Sip water at least every 2 hours while awake.
      * Fluids can be given by mouth, through a feeding tube, an IV (a tube that goes into a vein), or through a needle that goes under the skin (subcutaneous).
      * Keep your mouth moist with ice chips, a sponge, or oral swabs made for this purpose.
      * Talk to someone on your health care team about what happens if there is too much or too little fluid in the body. Decide together whether you need more fluids than you are taking in. 

Food:

      * Cut food into small pieces and chew slowly.
      * Blend or mash foods so they don't need to be chewed much.
      * Eat food that is soft and smooth, like soup, yogurt, applesauce, or pudding.
      * Drink shakes or smoothies.
      * If you have nausea, try dry, salty foods and clear liquids. 

Digestion:

      * Write down the times when you have bowel movements.
      * Sip water or juice at least every 2 hours while awake.
      * Eat fruit, such as prunes.
      * If possible, walk more.
      * When you try to have a bowel movement, sit on a toilet, commode, or bedpan.
      * Talk to someone on your health care team about stool softeners or laxatives. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call a member of your health care team if you have nausea, constipation, or
pain that cannot be managed.

## Alternative Names

Constipation - palliative care; End of life - digestion; Hospice - digestion

## References

Baracos VE. What therapeutic strategies are effective in improving anorexia
and weight loss in nonmalignant disease? In: Goldstein NE, Morrison RS, eds.
_Evidence-Based Practice of Palliative Medicine_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2013:chap 29.

Levine SK, Shega JW. How should medications be initiated and titrated to
prevent and treat nausea and vomiting in clinical situations unrelated to
chemotherapy? In: Goldstein NE, Morrison RS, eds. _Evidence-Based Practice of
Palliative Medicine_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:chap 26.

Levine SK, Shega JW. What interventions are effective for relieving acute
bowel obstruction in cancer and other conditions? In: Goldstein NE, Morrison
RS, eds. _Evidence-Based Practice of Palliative Medicine_. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2013:chap 27.

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Palliative Care

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

