Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003404.htm    
                                Description: Hysterosalpingography is a special x-ray using dye to look at the womb (uterus) and fallopian tubes.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hysterosalpingography

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003404.htm

# Hysterosalpingography

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hysterosalpingography is a special x-ray using dye to look at the womb
(uterus) and fallopian tubes.

## How the Test is Performed

This test is done in a radiology department. You will lie on a table beneath
an x-ray machine. You will place your feet in stirrups, like you do during a
pelvic exam. A tool called a speculum is placed into the vagina.

After the cervix is cleaned, the health care provider places a thin tube
(catheter) through the cervix. Dye, called contrast, flows through this tube,
filling the womb and fallopian tubes. X-rays are taken. The dye makes these
areas easier to see on x-rays.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your provider may give you antibiotics to take before and after the test. This
helps prevent infections. You may also be given medicines to take the day of
the procedure to help you relax.

The best time for this test is in the first half of the menstrual cycle. Doing
it at this time enables the health care provider to see uterine cavity and
tubes more clearly. It also reduces the risk for infection, and ensures that
you are not pregnant.

Tell your provider if you have had an allergic reaction to contrast dye
before.

You can eat and drink normally before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

You may have some discomfort when the speculum is inserted into the vagina.
This is similar to a pelvic exam with a Pap test.

Some women have cramps during or after the test, like those you may get during
your period.

You may have some pain if the dye leaks out of the tubes, or if the tubes are
blocked.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to check for blockages in your fallopian tubes or other
problems in the womb and tubes. It is often done as part of an infertility
exam. It may also be done after you have your tubes tied to confirm that the
tubes are fully blocked after you have had a hysteroscopic tubal occlusion
procedure to prevent pregnancy.

## Normal Results

A normal result means everything looks normal. There are no defects.

Note: Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk
to your doctor about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

      * Developmental disorders of the structures of the uterus or fallopian tubes
      * Scar tissue (adhesions) in the uterus or tubes
      * Blockage of the fallopian tubes
      * Presence of foreign bodies
      * Tumors or polyps in the uterus 

## Risks

Risks may include:

      * Allergic reaction to the contrast
      * Endometrial infection (endometritis)
      * Fallopian tube infection (salpingitis)
      * Perforation of (poking a hole through) the uterus 

## Considerations

This test should not be performed if you have pelvic inflammatory disease
(PID) or have unexplained vaginal bleeding.

After the test, tell your provider right away if you have any signs or
symptoms of infection. These include foul-smelling vaginal discharge, pain, or
fever. You may need to take antibiotics if this occurs.

## Alternative Names

HSG; Uterosalpingography; Hysterogram; Uterotubography; Infertility -
hysterosalpingography; Blocked fallopian tubes - hysterosalpingography

## Images

      * ![Uterus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19263t.jpg)Uterus

## References

Broekmans FJ, Fauser BCJM. Female infertility: evaluation and management. In:
Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and
Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 132.

Lobo RA. Infertility: etiology, diagnostic evaluation, management, prognosis.
In:Â Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive
Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 42.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Female
Infertility](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FemaleInfertility_thumb.jpg)Female
Infertility _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

