Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007062.htm    
                                Description: An ovulation home test is used by women. It helps determine the time in the menstrual cycle when getting pregnant is most likely.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ovulation home test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007062.htm

# Ovulation home test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An ovulation home test is used by women. It helps determine the time in the
menstrual cycle when getting pregnant is most likely.

The test detects a rise in luteinizing hormone (LH) in the urine. A rise in
this hormone signals the ovary to release the egg. This at-home test is often
used by women to help predict when an egg release is likely. This is when
pregnancy is most likely to occur. These kits can be bought at most drug
stores.

LH urine tests are not the same as at home fertility monitors. Fertility
monitors are digital handheld devices. They predict ovulation based on
electrolyte levels in saliva, LH levels in urine, or your basal body
temperature. These devices can store ovulation information for several
menstrual cycles.

## How the Test is Performed

Ovulation prediction test kits most often come with five to seven sticks. You
may need to test for several days to detect a surge in LH.

The specific time of month that you start testing depends on the length of
your menstrual cycle. For example, if your normal cycle is 28 days, you'll
need to begin testing on day 11 (That is, the 11th day after you started your
period.). If you have a different cycle interval than 28 days, talk to your
health care provider about the timing of the test. In general, you should
begin testing 3 to 5 days prior to the expected date of ovulation.

You will need to urinate on the test stick, or place the stick into urine that
has been collected into a sterile container. The test stick will turn a
certain color or display a positive sign if a surge is detected.

A positive result means you should ovulate in the next 24 to 36 hours, but
this may not be the case for all women. The booklet that is included in the
kit will tell you how to read the results.

You may miss your surge if you miss a day of testing. You may also not be able
to detect a surge if you have an irregular menstrual cycle.

## How to Prepare for the Test

DO NOT drink large amounts of fluids before using the test.

Drugs that can decrease LH levels include estrogens, progesterone, and
testosterone. Estrogens and progesterone may be found in birth control pills
and hormone replacement therapy.

The drug clomiphene citrate (Clomid) can increase LH levels. This drug is used
to help trigger ovulation.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves normal urination. There is no pain or discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is most often done to determine when a woman will ovulate to assist
in difficulty in getting pregnant. For women with a 28-day menstrual cycle,
this release normally occurs between days 11 and 14.

If you have an irregular menstrual cycle, the kit can help you tell when you
are ovulating.

The ovulation home test may also be used to help you adjust doses of certain
medicines such as infertility drugs.

## Normal Results

A positive result indicates an "LH surge." This is a sign that ovulation may
soon occur.

## Risks

Rarely, false positive results can occur. This means the test kit may falsely
predict ovulation.

## Considerations

Talk to your provider if you are unable to detect a surge or do not become
pregnant after using the kit for several months. You may need to see an
infertility specialist.

## Alternative Names

Luteinizing hormone urine test (home test); Ovulation prediction test;
Ovulation predictor kit; Urinary LH immunoassays; At-home ovulation prediction
test; LH urine test

## Images

      * ![Gonadotropins](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17228t.jpg)Gonadotropins

## References

Jeelani R, Bluth MH. Reproductive function and pregnancy. In: McPherson RA,
Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory
Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 25.

Nerenz RD, Jungheim E, Gronowski AM. Reproductive endocrinology and related
disorders. In: Rifai N, Horvath AR, Wittwer CT, eds. _Tietz Textbook of
Clinical Chemistry and Molecular Diagnostics_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier;
2018:chap 68.

## Review Date 3/28/2019

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Female
Infertility](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FemaleInfertility_thumb.jpg)Female
Infertility _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

