Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007369.htm    
                                Description: A pacemaker is a small, battery-operated device. This device senses when your heart is beating irregularly or too slowly. It sends a signal to your heart that makes your heart beat at the correct pace.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heart pacemaker

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007369.htm

# Heart pacemaker

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A pacemaker is a small, battery-operated device. This device senses when your
heart is beating irregularly or too slowly. It sends a signal to your heart
that makes your heart beat at the correct pace.

![Pacemaker](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19566.jpg)

## Description

Newer pacemakers weigh as little as 1 ounce (28 grams). Most pacemakers have 2
parts:

      * The generator contains the battery and the information to control the heartbeat.
      * The leads are wires that connect the heart to the generator and carry the electrical messages to the heart. 

A pacemaker is implanted under the skin. This procedure takes about 1 hour in
most cases. You will be given a sedative to help you relax. You will be awake
during the procedure.

A small incision (cut) is made. Most often, the cut is on the left side (if
you are right handed) of the chest below your collarbone. The pacemaker
generator is then placed under the skin at this location. The generator may
also be placed in the abdomen, but this is less common. A new "leadless"
pacemaker is a self-contained unit that is implanted in the right ventricle of
the heart.

Using live x-rays to see the area, the doctor puts the leads through the cut,
into a vein, and then into the heart. The leads are connected to the
generator. The skin is closed with stitches. Most people go home within 1 day
of the procedure.

There are 2 kinds of pacemakers used only in medical emergencies. They are:

      * Transcutaneous pacemakers
      * Transvenous pacemakers 

They are not permanent pacemakers.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Pacemakers may be used for people who have heart problems that cause their
heart to beat too slowly. A slow heartbeat is called bradycardia. Two common
problems that cause a slow heartbeat are sinus node disease and heart block.

When your heart beats too slowly, your body and brain may not get enough
oxygen. Symptoms may be

      * Lightheadedness
      * Tiredness
      * Fainting spells
      * Shortness of breath

Some pacemakers can be used to stop a heart rate that is too fast
(tachycardia) or that is irregular.

Other types of pacemakers can be used in severe heart failure. These are
called biventricular pacemakers. They help coordinate the beating of the heart
chambers.

Most biventricular pacemakers implanted today can also work as implantable
cardioverter defibrillators (ICD). ICD restore a normal heartbeat by
delivering a larger shock when a potentially deadly fast heart rhythm occurs.

![Heartbeat](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200083t.gif)Watch this
video about:Heartbeat

## Risks

Possible complications of pacemaker surgery are:

      * Abnormal heart rhythms
      * Bleeding
      * Punctured lung. This is rare.
      * Infection
      * Puncture of the heart, which can lead to bleeding around the heart. This is rare. 

A pacemaker senses if the heartbeat is above a certain rate. When it is above
that rate, the pacemaker will stop sending signals to the heart. The pacemaker
can also sense when the heartbeat slows down too much. It will automatically
start pacing the heart again.

## Before the Procedure

Always tell your health care provider about all the drugs you are taking, even
drugs or herbs you bought without a prescription.

The day before your surgery:

      * Shower and shampoo well.
      * You may be asked to wash your whole body below your neck with a special soap.

On the day of the surgery:

      * You may be asked not to drink or eat anything after midnight the night before your procedure. This includes chewing gum and breath mints. Rinse your mouth with water if it feels dry, but be careful not to swallow.
      * Take the drugs you have been told to take with a small sip of water.

Your provider will tell you when to arrive at the hospital.

## After the Procedure

You will probably be able to go home after 1 day or even the same day in some
cases. You should be able to return to your normal activity level quickly.

Ask your provider how much you can use the arm on the side of your body where
the pacemaker was placed. You may be advised not to:

      * Lift anything heavier than 10 to 15 pounds (4.5 to 6.75 kilograms)
      * Push, pull, and twist your arm for 2 to 3 weeks.
      * Raise your arm above your shoulder for several weeks.

When you leave the hospital, you will be given a card to keep in your wallet.
This card lists the details of your pacemaker and has contact information for
emergencies. You should always carry this wallet card with you.Â You should
try to remember the name of the pacemaker manufacturer if you can in case you
lose your card.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Pacemakers can help keep your heart rhythm and heart rate at a safe level for
you. The pacemaker battery lasts about 6 to 15 years. Your provider will check
the battery regularly and replace it when necessary.

## Alternative Names

Cardiac pacemaker implantation; Artificial pacemaker; Permanent pacemaker;
Internal pacemaker; Cardiac resynchronization therapy; CRT; Biventricular
pacemaker; Arrhythmia - pacemaker; Abnormal heart rhythm - pacemaker;
Bradycardia - pacemaker; Heart block - pacemaker; Mobitz - pacemaker; Heart
failure - pacemaker; HF - pacemaker; CHF- pacemaker

## Patient Instructions

      * Angina - discharge
      * Angina - what to ask your doctor 
      * Angina - when you have chest pain
      * Antiplatelet drugs - P2Y12 inhibitors
      * Aspirin and heart disease
      * Atrial fibrillation - discharge 
      * Butter, margarine, and cooking oils
      * Cholesterol and lifestyle
      * Controlling your high blood pressure
      * Dietary fats explained
      * Fast food tips
      * Heart attack - discharge
      * Heart attack - what to ask your doctor
      * Heart disease - risk factors
      * Heart failure - discharge
      * How to read food labels
      * Implantable cardioverter defibrillator - discharge
      * Low-salt diet 
      * Mediterranean diet
      * Surgical wound care - open

## Images

      * ![Pacemaker](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19566t.jpg)Pacemaker

## References

Epstein AE, DiMarco JP, Ellenbogen KA, et al. 2012 ACCF/AHA/HRS focused update
incorporated into the ACCF/AHA/HRS 2008 guidelines for device-based therapy of
cardiac rhythm abnormalities: a report of the American College of Cardiology
Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on practice guidelines and
the Heart Rhythm Society. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2013;61(3):e6-e75. PMID:
23265327 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23265327.

Miller JM, Tomaselli GF, Zipes DP. Therapy for cardiac arrhythmias. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2019:chap 36.

Pfaff JA, Gerhardt RT. Assessment of implantable devices. In: Roberts JR,
Custalow CB, Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in
Emergency Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 13.

Swerdlow CD, Wang PJ, Zipes DP. Pacemakers and implantable cardioverter-
defibrillators. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF,
Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular
Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018:chap 41.

## Review Date 7/25/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pacemakers and Implantable
Defibrillators](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pacemaker_thumb.jpg)Pacemakers
and Implantable Defibrillators _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

