Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000097.htm    
                                Description: A pacemaker is a small, battery-operated device that senses when your heart is beating irregularly or too slowly. It sends a signal to your heart that makes your heart beat at the correct pace. This article    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heart pacemaker - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000097.htm

# Heart pacemaker - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A pacemaker is a small, battery-operated device that senses when your heart is
beating irregularly or too slowly. It sends a signal to your heart that makes
your heart beat at the correct pace. This article discusses what you need to
do to take care of yourself when you leave the hospital.

Note: Care of certain specialized pacemakers or pacemakers combined with
defibrillators may be different than described below.

## When You're in the Hospital

You had a pacemaker placed in your chest to help your heart beat properly.

      * A small cut was made on your chest below your collarbone. The pacemaker generator was then placed under the skin at this location.
      * Leads (wires) were connected to the pacemaker, and one end of the wires was threaded through a vein into your heart. The skin over the area where the pacemaker was placed was closed with stitches.

Most pacemakers have only one or two wires that go to the heart. These wires
stimulate one or more of the chambers of the heart to squeeze (contract) when
the heartbeat gets too slow. A special type of pacemaker can be used for
people with heart failure. It has three leads to help the heart beat in a more
coordinated manner.

![Pacemaker](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/23220.jpg)

Some pacemakers also can deliver electric shocks to the heart that can stop
life-threatening arrhythmias (irregular heartbeats). These are called
"cardioverter defibrillators."

You should know what type of pacemaker you have and which company made it.

## What to Expect at Home

You will be given a card to keep in your wallet.

      * The card has information about your pacemaker and includes your doctor's name and telephone number. It also tells others what to do in case of an emergency.
      * You should always carry this wallet card with you. It will be helpful to any health care provider that you may see in the future because it says what kind of pacemaker you have. 

You should wear a medic alert bracelet or necklace that says you have a
pacemaker. In a medical emergency, health care workers taking care of you
should know you have a pacemaker.

## Be Careful Around Things With Magnets

Most machines and devices will not interfere with your pacemaker. But some
with strong magnetic fields may. Always ask your provider about any specific
device that you need to avoid. DO NOT put a magnet near your pacemaker.

Most appliances in your home are safe to be around. This includes your
refrigerator, washer, dryer, toaster, blender, computers and fax machines,
hair dryer, stove, CD player, remote controls, and microwaves.

You should keep several devices at least 12 inches (30 centimeters) away from
the site where the pacemaker is placed under your skin. These include:

      * Battery powered cordless tools (such as screwdrivers and drills)
      * Plug-in power tools (such as drills and table saws)
      * Electric lawnmowers and leaf blowers
      * Slot machines
      * Stereo speakers 

Tell all providers that you have a pacemaker before any tests are done.

Some medical equipment may interfere with your pacemaker.

Stay away from large motors, generators, and equipment. DO NOT lean over the
open hood of a car that is running. Also stay away from:

      * Radio transmitters and high-voltage power lines
      * Products that use magnetic therapy, such as some mattresses, pillows, and massagers
      * Large electrical- or gasoline-powered appliances 

If you have a cell phone:

      * DO NOT put it in a pocket on the same side of your body as your pacemaker.
      * When using your cell phone, hold it to your ear on the opposite side of your body. 

Be careful around metal detectors and security wands.

      * Handheld security wands may interfere with your pacemaker. Show your wallet card and ask to be hand searched.
      * Most security gates at airports and stores are OK. But DO NOT stand near these devices for long periods. Your pacemaker may set off alarms. 

After any operation, have your provider check your pacemaker.

## Wound Care

You should be able to do normal activities in 3 to 4 days.

For 2 to 3 weeks, DO NOT do these things with the arm on the side of your body
where the pacemaker was placed:

      * Lifting anything heavier than 10 to 15 pounds (4.5 to 7 kilograms)
      * Too much pushing, pulling, or twisting 

DO NOT lift this arm above your shoulder for several weeks. DO NOT wear
clothes that rub on the wound for 2 or 3 weeks. Keep your incision completely
dry for 4 to 5 days. Afterward, you may take a shower and then pat it dry.
Always wash your hands before touching the wound.

## Follow-up

Your provider will tell you how often you will need to have your pacemaker
checked. In most cases, it will be every 6 months to a year. The exam will
take about 15 to 30 minutes.

The batteries in your pacemaker should last 6 to 15 years. Regular checkups
can detect if the battery is wearing down or if there are any problems with
the leads (wires). Your provider will change both the generator and battery
when the battery gets low.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

      * Your wound looks infected (redness, increased drainage, swelling, pain).
      * You are having the symptoms you had before the pacemaker was implanted.
      * You feel dizzy or short of breath.
      * You have chest pain.
      * You have hiccups that DO NOT go away.
      * You were unconscious for a moment. 

## Alternative Names

Cardiac pacemaker implantation - discharge; Artificial pacemaker - discharge;
Permanent pacemaker - discharge; Internal pacemaker - discharge; Cardiac
resynchronization therapy - discharge; CRT - discharge; Biventricular
pacemaker - discharge; Heart block - pacemaker discharge; AV block - pacemaker
discharge; Heart failure - pacemaker discharge; Bradycardia - pacemaker
discharge

## Images

      * ![Pacemaker](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23220t.jpg)Pacemaker

## References

Knops P, Jordaens L. Pacemaker follow-up. In: Saksena S, Camm AJ, eds.
_Electrophysiological Disorders of the Heart_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2012:chap 37.

Swerdlow CD, Wang PJ, Zipes DP. Pacemakers and implantable cardioverter-
defibrillators. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF,
Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular
Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 41.

Wilber DJ. Electrophysiologic interventional procedures and surgery. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 66.

## Read More

      * Arrhythmias
      * Atrial fibrillation or flutter
      * Cardiac ablation procedures 
      * Coronary heart disease
      * Heart bypass surgery
      * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive
      * Heart failure - overview
      * High blood cholesterol levels
      * Sick sinus syndrome

## Patient Instructions

      * Heart attack - discharge
      * Implantable cardioverter defibrillator - discharge
      * Surgical wound care - open

## Review Date 7/25/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Pacemakers and Implantable Defibrillators

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

