Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007370.htm    
                                Description: An implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) is a device that detects any life-threatening, rapid heartbeat. This abnormal heartbeat is called an arrhythmia. If it occurs, the ICD quickly sends an electrical    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007370.htm

# Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) is a device that detects any
life-threatening, rapid heartbeat. This abnormal heartbeat is called an
arrhythmia. If it occurs, the ICD quickly sends an electrical shock to the
heart. The shock changes the rhythm back to normal. This is called
defibrillation.

## Description

An ICD is made of these parts:

      * The pulse generator is about the size of a large pocket watch. It contains a battery and electrical circuits that read the electrical activity of your heart.
      * The electrodes are wires, also called leads, that go through your veins to your heart. They connect your heart to the rest of the device. Your ICD may have 1, 2, or 3 electrodes.
      * Most ICDs have a built-in pacemaker. Your heart may need pacing if it is beating too slowly or too fast, or if you have had a shock from the ICD.
      * There is a special kind of ICD called a subcutaneous ICD. This device has a lead that is placed in the tissue to the left of the breastbone rather than in the heart. This type of ICD cannot also be a pacemaker. 
![Implantable cardioverter-
defibrillator](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/21739.jpg)

A cardiologist or surgeon most often will insert your ICD when you are awake.
The area of your chest wall below your collarbone will be numbed with
anesthesia, so you will not feel pain. The surgeon will make an incision (cut)
through your skin and create space under your skin and muscle for the ICD
generator. In most cases, this space is made near your left shoulder.

The surgeon will place the electrode into a vein, then into your heart. This
is done using a special x-ray to see inside your chest. Then the surgeon will
connect the electrodes to the pulse generator and pacemaker.

The procedure most often takes 2 to 3 hours.

Some people with this condition will have a special device that combines a
defibrillator and biventricular pacemaker placed. The pacemaker device helps
the heart to beat in a more coordinated fashion.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

An ICD is placed in people who are at high risk of sudden cardiac death from
an abnormal heart rhythm that is life threatening. These include ventricular
tachycardia (VT) or ventricular fibrillation (VF).

Reasons you may be at high risk are:

      * You have had episodes of one of these abnormal heart rhythms.
      * Your heart is weakened, too large, and does not pump blood very well. This may be from earlier heart attacks, heart failure, or cardiomyopathy (diseased heart muscle).
      * You have a type of congenital (present at birth) heart problem or genetic health condition. 

## Risks

Risks for any surgery are:

      * Blood clots in the legs that may travel to the lungs
      * Breathing problems
      * Heart attack or stroke
      * Allergic reactions to medicines (anesthesia) used during surgery
      * Infection 

Possible risks for this surgery are:

      * Wound infection
      * Injury to your heart or lungs
      * Dangerous heart arrhythmias

An ICD sometimes delivers shocks to your heart when you DO NOT need them. Even
though a shock lasts a very short time, you can feel it in most cases.

This and other ICD problems can sometimes be prevented by changing how your
ICD is programmed. It can also be set to sound an alert if there is a problem.
The doctor who manages your ICD care can program your device.

## Before the Procedure

Always tell your health care provider what drugs you are taking, even drugs or
herbs you bought without a prescription.

The day before your surgery:

      * Let your provider know about any cold, flu, fever, herpes breakout, or other illness you might have.
      * Shower and shampoo well. You may be asked to wash your whole body below your neck with a special soap.
      * You may also be asked to take an antibiotic, to guard against infection. 

On the day of the surgery:

      * You will usually be asked not to drink or eat anything after midnight the night before your surgery. This includes chewing gum and breath mints. Rinse your mouth with water if it feels dry, but be careful not to swallow.
      * Take the drugs you have been told to take with just a small sip of water. 

You will be told when to arrive at the hospital.

## After the Procedure

Most people who have an ICD implanted are able to go home from the hospital in
1 day. Most quickly return to their normal activity level. Full recovery takes
about 4 to 6 weeks.

Ask your provider how much you can use the arm on the side of your body where
the ICD was placed. You may be advised not to lift anything heavier than 10 to
15 pounds (4.5 toÂ 6.75 kilograms) and to avoid pushing, pulling, or twisting
your arm for 2 to 3 weeks. You may also be told not to raise your arm above
your shoulder for several weeks.

When you leave the hospital, you will be given a card to keep in your wallet.
This card lists the details of your ICD and has contact information for
emergencies. You should always carry this wallet card with you.

You will need regular checkups so your ICD can be monitored. The provider will
check to see if:

      * The device is properly sensing your heartbeat
      * How many shocks have been delivered
      * How much power is left in the batteries.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Your ICD will constantly monitor your heartbeats to make sure they are steady.
It will deliver a shock to the heart when it senses a life-threatening rhythm.
Most of these devices can also work as a pacemaker.

## Alternative Names

ICD; Defibrillation

## Patient Instructions

      * Angina - discharge
      * Angina - when you have chest pain
      * Antiplatelet drugs - P2Y12 inhibitors
      * Aspirin and heart disease
      * Butter, margarine, and cooking oils
      * Cholesterol and lifestyle
      * Controlling your high blood pressure
      * Dietary fats explained
      * Fast food tips
      * Heart attack - discharge
      * Heart disease - risk factors
      * Heart failure - discharge
      * How to read food labels
      * Low-salt diet 
      * Mediterranean diet
      * Surgical wound care - open

## Images

      * ![Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/21739t.jpg)Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator

## References

Epstein AE, DiMarco JP, Ellenbogen KA, et al. 2012 ACCF/AHA/HRS focused update
incorporated into the ACCF/AHA/HRS 2008 guidelines for device-based therapy of
cardiac rhythm abnormalities: a report of the American College of Cardiology
Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on practice guidelines and
the Heart Rhythm Society. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2013;61(3):e6-e75. PMID:
23265327 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23265327.

Miller JM, Tomaselli GF, Zipes DP. Therapy for cardiac arrhythmias. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2019:chap 36.

Pfaff JA, Gerhardt RT. Assessment of implantable devices. In: Roberts JR,
Custalow CB, Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in
Emergency Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 13.

Swerdlow CD, Wang PJ, Zipes DP. Pacemakers and implantable cardioverter-
defibrillators. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF,
Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular
Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2019:chap 41.

## Review Date 7/25/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pacemakers and Implantable
Defibrillators](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pacemaker_thumb.jpg)Pacemakers
and Implantable Defibrillators _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

