Link: https://medlineplus.gov/chickenpox.html    
                                Description: Chickenpox is a contagious disease caused by the varicella-zoster virus. It causes an itchy rash with blisters. Learn about vaccines and treatment.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Chickenpox

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/chickenpox.html

#  Chickenpox

Also called: Varicella

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Symptoms
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images
    * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Adults
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Chickenpox is an infection caused by the varicella-zoster virus. Most cases
are in children under age 15, but older children and adults can get it. It
spreads very easily from one person to another.

The classic symptom of chickenpox is an uncomfortable, itchy rash. The rash
turns into fluid-filled blisters and eventually into scabs. It usually shows
up on the face, chest, and back and then spreads to the rest of the body.
Other symptoms include

    * Fever
    * Headache
    * Tiredness
    * Loss of appetite

Chickenpox is usually mild and lasts 5 to 10 days. Calamine lotions and
oatmeal baths can help with itching. Acetaminophen can treat the fever. Do not
use aspirin for chickenpox; that combination can cause Reye syndrome.

Chickenpox can sometimes cause serious problems. Adults, babies, teenagers,
pregnant women, and those with weak immune systems tend to get sicker from it.
They may need to take antiviral medicines.

Once you catch chickenpox, the virus usually stays in your body. You probably
will not get chickenpox again, but the virus can cause shingles in adults. A
chickenpox vaccine can help prevent most cases of chickenpox, or make it less
severe if you do get it.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Start Here

    * About Chickenpox (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Chickenpox (Nemours Foundation)
    * Chickenpox (Varicella) (Logical Images)
    * First Aid: Chickenpox (Nemours Foundation)

## Symptoms

    * Chickenpox (Varicella) Signs and Symptoms (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Chickenpox and Shingles Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Chickenpox (Varicella): Transmission (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Chickenpox Can Be Serious. Protect Yourself and Your Child. (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Chickenpox Vaccine (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Chickenpox Vaccine: What You Need to Know (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * MMRV (Measles, Mumps, Rubella, and Varicella) Vaccine: What You Need to Know (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Who Needs Chickenpox Vaccine (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Chickenpox Prevention and Treatment (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Possible Side Effects of Chickenpox Vaccine (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Postherpetic Neuralgia (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Reye Syndrome (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Travelers' Health: Varicella (Chickenpox) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Specifics

    * Chickenpox (Varicella) Complications (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Images

    * Chickenpox (Varicella) Photos (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Videos and Tutorials

    * One Family's Struggle with Chickenpox ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Parents of Kids with Infectious Diseases)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Chickenpox ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Risk of herpes zoster after exposure to varicella to explore the...
    * Article: Impact of vaccination on the incidence of varicella hospitalizations in a...
    * Article: Vaccines for preventing herpes zoster in older adults.
    * Chickenpox -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
    * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * Chickenpox (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Chickenpox - Fact Sheet for Parents (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * What Makes Chickenpox Itch? (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Adults

    * Chickenpox and Adults (National Foundation for Infectious Diseases)

## Patient Handouts

    * Chickenpox (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Chickenpox Vaccine: What You Need to Know (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * MMRV (Measles, Mumps, Rubella, and Varicella) Vaccine: What You Need to Know (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Chickenpox](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChickenPoxII.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Chickenpox

## Related Health Topics

    * Childhood Immunization
    * Shingles

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Chickenpox is the National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Chickenpox_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 12 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

