Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000108.htm    
                                Description: An implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) is a device that detects a life-threatening, abnormal heartbeat. If it occurs, the device sends an electrical shock to the heart to change the rhythm back    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Implantable cardioverter defibrillator - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000108.htm

# Implantable cardioverter defibrillator - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) is a device that detects a
life-threatening, abnormal heartbeat. If it occurs, the device sends an
electrical shock to the heart to change the rhythm back to normal. This
article discusses what you need to know after you have had an ICD inserted.

Note: Care of certain special defibrillators may be different than described
below.

## When You're in the Hospital

A type of heart specialist called an electrophysiologist or a surgeon made a
small incision (cut) in your chest wall. A device called an ICD was inserted
under your skin and muscle. The ICD is the size of a large cookie. Leads, or
electrodes, were placed in your heart and were connected to your ICD.

The ICD can quickly detect life-threatening abnormal heartbeats (arrhythmias).
It is designed to convert any abnormal heart rhythm back to normal by sending
an electrical shock to your heart. This action is called defibrillation. This
device can also work as a pacemaker.

## What to Expect at Home

When you leave the hospital, you will be given a card to keep in your wallet.
This card lists the details of your ICD and has contact information for
emergencies.

Carry your ICD identification card with you AT ALL TIMES. The information it
contains will tell all health care providers you see what type of ICD you
have. Not all ICDs are the same. You should know what type of ICD you have and
which company made it. This can let other providers check the device to see if
it works right.

## Wound Care

You should be able to do most of your normal activities within 3 to 4 days
after surgery. But you will have some limits for up to 4 to 6 weeks.

DO NOT do these things for 2 to 3 weeks:

      * Lift anything heavier than 10 to 15 pounds (4.5 to 7 kilograms)
      * Push, pull, or twist too much
      * Wear clothes that rub on the wound

Keep your incision completely dry for 4 to 5 days. After that, you may take a
shower and pat it dry. Always wash your hands before touching the wound.

For 4 to 6 weeks, DO NOT lift your arm higher than your shoulder on the side
of your body where your ICD was placed.

## Follow-up

You will need to see your provider regularly for monitoring. Your doctor will
make sure your ICD is working correctly and will check to see how many shocks
it has sent and how much power is left in the battery. Your first follow-up
visit will probably be about 1 month after your ICD is placed.

ICD batteries are designed to last 4 to 8 years. Regular checks of the battery
are needed to see how much power it has left. You will need minor surgery to
replace your ICD when the battery begins to run down.

## Be Careful Around Things With Magnets

Most devices will not interfere with your defibrillator, but some with strong
magnetic fields might. Ask your provider if you have questions about any
specific device.

Most appliances in your home are safe to be around. This includes your
refrigerator, washer, dryer, toaster, blender, personal computer and fax
machine, hair dryer, stove, CD player, remote controls, and microwave.

There are several devices you should keep at least 12 inches (30.5
centimeters) away from the site where your ICD is placed under your skin.
These include:

      * Battery-powered cordless tools (such as screwdrivers and drills)
      * Plug-in power tools (such as drills and table saws)
      * Electric lawnmowers and leaf blowers
      * Slot machines
      * Stereo speakers 

Tell all providers that you have an ICD. Some medical equipment may harm your
ICD. Because MRI machines have powerful magnets, talk to your doctor before
having an MRI.

Stay away from large motors, generators, and equipment. DO NOT lean over the
open hood of a running car. Also stay away from:

      * Radio transmitters and high-voltage power lines
      * Products that use magnetic therapy, such as some mattresses, pillows, and massagers
      * Electrical or gasoline-powered appliances 

If you have a cell phone:

      * DO NOT put it in a pocket on the same side of your body as your ICD.
      * When using your cell phone, hold it to your ear on the opposite side of your body. 

Be careful around metal detectors and security wands.

      * Handheld security wands may interfere with your ICD. Show your wallet card and ask to be hand searched.
      * Most security gates at airports and stores are OK. But DO NOT stand near these devices for long periods. Your ICD may set off alarms. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Tell your provider about every shock you feel from your ICD. The settings of
your ICD may need to be adjusted, or your medicines may need to be changed.

Also call if:

      * Your wound looks infected. Signs of infection are redness, increased drainage, swelling, and pain.
      * You are having the symptoms you had before your ICD was implanted.
      * You are dizzy, have chest pain, or are short of breath.
      * You have hiccups that DO NOT go away.
      * You were unconscious for a moment.
      * Your ICD has sent a shock and you still DO NOT feel well or you pass out. Talk to your provider about when to call the office or 911. 

## Alternative Names

ICD - discharge; Defibrillation - discharge; Arrhythmia - ICD discharge;
Abnormal heart rhythm - ICD discharge; Ventricular fibrillation - ICD
discharge; VF - ICD discharge; V Fib - ICD discharge

## Images

      * ![Implantable cardiac defibrillator](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22914t.jpg)Implantable cardiac defibrillator

## References

Knops P, Jordaens L. Pacemaker follow-up. In: Saksena S, Camm AJ, eds.
_Electrophysiological Disorders of the Heart_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2012:chap 37.

Swerdlow CD, Wang PJ, Zipes DP. Pacemakers and implantable cardioverter-
defibrillators. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF,
Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular
Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 41.

Wilber DJ. Electrophysiologic interventional procedures and surgery. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 66.

## Read More

      * Coronary heart disease
      * Heart failure - overview
      * Heart pacemaker
      * High blood pressure - adults
      * Ventricular fibrillation
      * Ventricular tachycardia

## Patient Instructions

      * Heart attack - discharge
      * Heart failure - discharge
      * Heart pacemaker - discharge

## Review Date 7/25/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Pacemakers and Implantable Defibrillators

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

