Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003150.htm    
                                Description: Painful menstrual periods are periods in which a woman has crampy lower abdominal pain, which can be sharp or aching and come and go. Back pain may also be present.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Painful menstrual periods

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003150.htm

# Painful menstrual periods

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Painful menstrual periods are periods in which a woman has crampy lower
abdominal pain, which can be sharp or aching and come and go. Back pain may
also be present.

Some pain during your period is normal, but a large amount of pain is not. The
medical term for painful menstrual periods is dysmenorrhea.

## Considerations

Many women have painful periods. Sometimes, the pain makes it hard to do
normal household, job, or school-related activities for a few days during each
menstrual cycle. Painful menstruation is the leading cause of lost time from
school and work among women in their teens and 20s.

## Causes

Painful menstrual periods fall into two groups, depending on the cause:

      * Primary dysmenorrhea
      * Secondary dysmenorrhea 

Primary dysmenorrhea is menstrual pain that occurs around the time that
menstrual periods first begin in otherwise healthy young women. In most cases,
this pain is not related to a specific problem with the uterus or other pelvic
organs. Increased activity of the hormone prostaglandin, which is produced in
the uterus, is thought to play a role in this condition.

Secondary dysmenorrhea is menstrual pain that develops later in women who have
had normal periods. It is often related to problems in the uterus or other
pelvic organs, such as:

      * Endometriosis
      * Fibroids
      * Intrauterine device (IUD) made of copper
      * Pelvic inflammatory disease 
      * Premenstrual syndrome (PMS)
      * Sexually transmitted infection
      * Stress and anxiety 

## Home Care

The following steps may help you to avoid prescription medicines:

      * Apply a heating pad to your lower belly area, below your belly button. Never fall asleep with the heating pad on.
      * Do light circular massage with your fingertips around your lower belly area.
      * Drink warm beverages.
      * Eat light but frequent meals.
      * Keep your legs raised while lying down or lie on your side with your knees bent.
      * Practice relaxation techniques such as meditation or yoga.
      * Try over-the-counter anti-inflammatory medicine such as ibuprofen. Start taking it the day before your period is expected to start and continue taking it regularly for the first few days of your period.
      * Try vitamin B6, calcium, and magnesium supplements, especially if your pain is from PMS.
      * Take warm showers or baths.
      * Walk or exercise regularly, including pelvic rocking exercises.
      * Lose weight if you are overweight. Get regular, aerobic exercise.

If these self-care measures do not work, your health care provider may offer
you treatment such as:

      * Birth control pills
      * Mirena IUD
      * Prescription anti-inflammatory medicines
      * Prescription pain relievers (including narcotics, for brief periods)
      * Antidepressants
      * Antibiotics
      * Pelvic ultrasound
      * Suggest surgery (laparoscopy) to rule out endometriosis or other pelvic disease

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider right away if you have:

      * Increased or foul-smelling vaginal discharge
      * Fever and pelvic pain
      * Sudden or severe pain, especially if your period is more than 1 week late and you have been sexually active. 

Also call if:

      * Treatments do not relieve your pain after 3 months.
      * You have pain and had an IUD placed more than 3 months ago.
      * You pass blood clots or have other symptoms with the pain.
      * Your pain occurs at times other than menstruation, begins more than 5 days before your period, or continues after your period is over. 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will examine you and ask questions about your medical history
and symptoms.

Tests and procedures that may be done include:

      * Complete blood count (CBC)
      * Cultures to rule out sexually transmitted infections
      * Laparoscopy
      * Pelvic ultrasound

Treatment depends on what is causing your pain.

## Alternative Names

Menstruation - painful; Dysmenorrhea; Periods - painful; Cramps - menstrual;
Menstrual cramps

## Images

      * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1112t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy
      * ![Painful periods \(dysmenorrhea\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17054t.jpg)Painful periods (dysmenorrhea)
      * ![Relieving PMS](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17124t.jpg)Relieving PMS
      * ![Uterus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19263t.jpg)Uterus

## References

American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. Dysmenorrhea: painful
periods. FAQ046, January 2015. www.acog.org/Patients/FAQs/Dysmenorrhea-
Painful-Periods. Accessed May 20, 2018.

Mendiratta V, Lentz GM. Primary and secondary dysmenorrhea, premenstrual
syndrome, and premenstrual dysphoric disorder: etiology, diagnosis,
management. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds.
_Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 37.

Pattanittum P, Kunyanone N, Brown J, et al. Dietary supplements for
dysmenorrhea. _Cochrane Database Syst Rev_. 2016;3:CD002124. PMID: 27000311.
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27000311.

Sciscione A, Mcguirk B. Dysmenorrhea. In: Ferri FF, ed. _Ferri's Clinical
Advisor 2019_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:471-471.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Period Pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeriodPain_thumb.jpg)Period Pain
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

