Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003079.htm    
                                Description: Chest pain is discomfort or pain that you feel anywhere along the front of your body between your neck and upper abdomen.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chest pain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003079.htm

# Chest pain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chest pain is discomfort or pain that you feel anywhere along the front of
your body between your neck and upper abdomen.

## Considerations

Many people with chest pain fear a heart attack. However, there are many
possible causes of chest pain. Some causes are not dangerous to your health,
while other causes are serious and, in some cases, life-threatening.

Any organ or tissue in your chest can be the source of pain, including your
heart, lungs, esophagus, muscles, ribs, tendons, or nerves. Pain may also
spread to the chest from the neck, abdomen, and back.

## Causes

Heart or blood vessel problems that can cause chest pain:

      * Angina or a heart attack. The most common symptom is chest pain that may feel like tightness, heavy pressure, squeezing, or crushing pain. The pain may spread to the arm, shoulder, jaw, or back.
      * A tear in the wall of the aorta, the large blood vessel that takes blood from the heart to the rest of the body (aortic dissection) causes sudden, severe pain in the chest and upper back.
      * Swelling (inflammation) in the sac that surrounds the heart (pericarditis) causes pain in the center part of the chest. 

Lung problems that can cause chest pain:

      * A blood clot in the lung (pulmonary embolism).
      * Collapse of the lung (pneumothorax).
      * Pneumonia causes a sharp chest pain that often gets worse when you take a deep breath or cough.
      * Swelling of the lining around the lung (pleurisy) can cause chest pain that usually feels sharp, and often gets worse when you take a deep breath or cough. 

Other causes of chest pain:

      * Panic attack, which often occurs with fast breathing.
      * Inflammation where the ribs join the breast bone or sternum (costochondritis).
      * Shingles, which causes sharp, tingling pain on one side that stretches from the chest to the back, and may cause a rash.
      * Strain of the muscles and tendons between the ribs. 

Chest pain can also be due to the following digestive system problems:

      * Spasms or narrowing of the esophagus (the tube that carries food from the mouth to the stomach)
      * Gallstones cause pain that gets worse after a meal (most often a fatty meal).
      * Heartburn or gastroesophageal reflux (GERD)
      * Stomach ulcer or gastritis: Burning pain occurs if your stomach is empty and feels better when you eat food 

In children, most chest pain is not caused by the heart.

## Home Care

For most causes of chest pain, it is best to check with your health care
provider before treating yourself at home.

![Heart attack symptoms](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/9807.jpg)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call 911 if:

      * You have sudden crushing, squeezing, tightening, or pressure in your chest.
      * Pain spreads (radiates) to your jaw, left arm, or between your shoulder blades.
      * You have nausea, dizziness, sweating, a racing heart, or shortness of breath.
      * You know you have angina and your chest discomfort is suddenly more intense, brought on by lighter activity, or lasts longer than usual.
      * Your angina symptoms occur while you are at rest.
      * You have sudden, sharp chest pain with shortness of breath, especially after a long trip, a stretch of bedrest (for example, following an operation), or other lack of movement, especially if one leg is swollen or more swollen than the other (this could be a blood clot, part of which has moved to the lungs).
      * You have been diagnosed with a serious condition, such as heart attack or pulmonary embolism. 

Your risk of having a heart attack is greater if:

      * You have a family history of heart disease.
      * You smoke, use cocaine, or are overweight.
      * You have high cholesterol, high blood pressure, or diabetes.
      * You already have heart disease. 

Call your provider if:

      * You have a fever or a cough that produces yellow-green phlegm.
      * You have chest pain that is severe and does not go away.
      * You are having problems swallowing.
      * Chest pain lasts longer than 3 to 5 days. 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider may ask questions such as:

      * Is the pain between the shoulder blades? Under the breast bone? Does the pain change location? Is it on one side only?
      * How would you describe the pain? (severe, tearing or ripping, sharp, stabbing, burning, squeezing, tight, pressure-like, crushing, aching, dull, heavy)
      * Does it begin suddenly? Does the pain occur at the same time each day?
      * Does the pain get better or worse when you walk or change positions?
      * Can you make the pain happen by pressing on a part of your chest?
      * Is the pain getting worse? How long does the pain last?
      * Does the pain go from your chest into your shoulder, arm, neck, jaw, or back?
      * Is the pain worse when you are breathing deeply, coughing, eating, or bending?
      * Is the pain worse when you are exercising? Is it better after you rest? Does it go away completely, or is there just less pain?
      * Is the pain better after you take nitroglycerin medicine? After you eat or take antacids? After you belch?
      * What other symptoms do you have? 

The types of tests that are done depend on the cause of the pain, and what
other medical problems or risk factors you have.

## Alternative Names

Chest tightness; Chest pressure; Chest discomfort

## Patient Instructions

      * Angina - discharge
      * Angina - what to ask your doctor 
      * Angina - when you have chest pain
      * Being active after your heart attack

## Images

      * ![Heart attack symptoms](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9807t.jpg)Heart attack symptoms
      * ![Jaw pain and heart attacks](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9486t.jpg)Jaw pain and heart attacks

## References

Amsterdam EA, Wenger NK, Brindis RG, et al. 2014 AHA/ACC guideline for the
management of patients with non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes: a
report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task
Force on Practice Guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2014;64(24):e139-e228.
PMID: 25260718 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25260718.

Bonaca MP, Sabatine MS. Approach to the patient with chest pain. In: Zipes DP,
Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 56.

Goldman L. Approach to the patient with possible cardiovascular disease. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 51.

O'Gara PT, Kushner FG, Ascheim DD, et al. 2013 ACCF/AHA guideline for the
management of ST-elevation myocardial infarction: a report of the American
College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on
Practice Guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2013;61(4):e78-e140. PMID: 23256914
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23256914.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Chest Pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChestPain_thumb.jpg)Chest Pain
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

