Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001103.htm    
                                Description: Constrictive pericarditis is long-term (chronic) inflammation of the sac-like covering of the heart (the pericardium) with thickening and scarring.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pericarditis - constrictive

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001103.htm

# Pericarditis - constrictive

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Constrictive pericarditis is long-term (chronic) inflammation of the sac-like
covering of the heart (the pericardium) with thickening and scarring.

Related conditions include:

      * Bacterial pericarditis
      * Pericarditis
      * Pericarditis after heart attack
![Pericardium](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18081.jpg)

## Causes

Most of the time, constrictive pericarditis occurs due to things that cause
inflammation to develop around the heart, such as:

      * Heart surgery
      * Radiation therapy to the chest
      * Tuberculosis

Less common causes include:

      * Abnormal fluid buildup in the covering of the heart. This may occur because of infection or as a complication of surgery.
      * Mesothelioma

The condition may also develop without a clear cause.

It is rare in children.

![Constrictive
pericarditis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18151.jpg)

## Symptoms

When you have constrictive pericarditis, the inflammation causes the covering
of the heart to become thick and rigid. This makes it hard for the heart to
stretch properly when it beats. As a result, the heart chambers don't fill up
with enough blood. Blood backs up behind the heart, causing heart swelling and
other symptoms of heart failure.

Symptoms of chronic constrictive pericarditis include:

      * Difficulty breathing (dyspnea) that develops slowly and gets worse
      * Fatigue
      * Long-term swelling (edema) of the legs and ankles
      * Swollen abdomen
      * Weakness

## Exams and Tests

Constrictive pericarditis is very hard to diagnose. Signs and symptoms are
similar to other conditions such as restrictive cardiomyopathy and cardiac
tamponade. Your health care provider will need to rule out these conditions
when making a diagnosis.

A physical exam may show that your neck veins stick out. This indicates
increased pressure around the heart. When it happens due to constrictive
pericarditis that is called Kussmaul's sign. The provider may note weak or
distant heart sounds when listening to your chest with a stethoscope. A
knocking sound may also be heard.

The physical exam may also reveal liver swelling and fluid in the belly area.

The following tests may be ordered:

      * Chest MRI
      * Chest CT scan
      * Chest x-ray
      * Coronary angiography or cardiac catheterization
      * ECG
      * Echocardiogram

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to improve heart function. The cause must be
identified and treated. Depending on the source of the problem, treatment may
include antibiotics, medicines for tuberculosis, or other treatments.

Diuretics ("water pills") are often used in small doses to help the body
remove excess fluid. Pain medicines may be needed for discomfort.

Some people may need to cut down on their activity. A low-sodium diet may also
be recommended.

If other methods DO NOT control the problem, surgery called a pericardiectomy
may be needed. This involves cutting or removing the scarring and part of the
sac-like covering of the heart.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Constrictive pericarditis may be life threatening if untreated.

However, surgery to treat the condition has a high risk for complications. For
this reason, it is most often done in people who have severe symptoms.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Cardiac tamponade
      * Damage to the coronary arteries
      * Heart failure
      * Pulmonary edema
      * Scarring of the heart muscle 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of constrictive pericarditis.

## Prevention

Constrictive pericarditis in some cases is not preventable.

However, conditions that can lead to constrictive pericarditis should be
properly treated.

## Alternative Names

Constrictive pericarditis

## Images

      * ![Pericardium](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18081t.jpg)Pericardium
      * ![Constrictive pericarditis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18151t.jpg)Constrictive pericarditis

## References

Jouriles NJ. Pericardial and Myocardial Disease. In Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018:chap 72.

LeWinter MM, Imazio M. Pericardial diseases. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO,
Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A
Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 83.

Little WC, Oh JK. Pericardial diseases. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 77.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pericardial
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PericardialDisorders_thumb.jpg)Pericardial
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

