Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000182.htm    
                                Description: Pericarditis is a condition in which the sac-like covering around the heart (pericardium) becomes inflamed.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pericarditis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000182.htm

# Pericarditis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pericarditis is a condition in which the sac-like covering around the heart
(pericardium) becomes inflamed.

![Pericarditis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18149.jpg)

## Causes

The cause of pericarditis is unknown or unproven in many cases. It mostly
affects men ages 20 to 50 years.

Pericarditis is often the result of an infection such as:

      * Viral infections that cause a chest cold or pneumonia
      * Infections with bacteria (less common)
      * Some fungal infections (rare) 

The condition may be seen with diseases such as:

      * Cancer (including leukemia)
      * Disorders in which the immune system attacks healthy body tissue by mistake
      * HIV infection and AIDS
      * Underactive thyroid gland
      * Kidney failure
      * Rheumatic fever
      * Tuberculosis (TB) 

Other causes include:

      * Heart attack
      * Heart surgery or trauma to the chest, esophagus, or heart
      * Certain medicines, such as procainamide, hydralazine, phenytoin, isoniazid, and some drugs used to treat cancer or suppress the immune system
      * Swelling or inflammation of the heart muscle
      * Radiation therapy to the chest 

## Symptoms

Chest pain is almost always present. The pain:

      * May be felt in the neck, shoulder, back, or abdomen
      * Often increases with deep breathing and lying flat, and may increase with coughing and swallowing
      * Can feel sharp and stabbing
      * Is often relieved by sitting up and leaning or bending forward 

You may have fever, chills, or sweating if the condition is caused by an
infection.

Other symptoms may include:

      * Ankle, feet, and leg swelling
      * Anxiety
      * Breathing difficulty when lying down
      * Dry cough
      * Fatigue

## Exams and Tests

When listening to the heart with a stethoscope, the health care provider can
hear a sound called a pericardial rub. The heart sounds may be muffled or
distant. There may be other signs of excess fluid in the pericardium
(pericardial effusion).

If the disorder is severe, there may be:

      * Crackles in the lungs
      * Decreased breath sounds
      * Other signs of fluid in the space around the lungs

The following imaging tests may be done to check the heart and the tissue
layer around it (pericardium):

      * Chest MRI scan
      * Chest x-ray
      * Echocardiogram
      * Electrocardiogram
      * Heart MRI or heart CT scan
      * Radionuclide scanning 

To look for heart muscle damage, the provider may order a troponin I test.
Other laboratory tests may include:

      * Antinuclear antibody (ANA)
      * Blood culture
      * CBC
      * C-reactive protein
      * Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)
      * HIV test
      * Rheumatoid factor
      * Tuberculin skin test

## Treatment

The cause of pericarditis should be identified, if possible.

High doses of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen
are often given with a medicine called colchicine. These medicines will
decrease your pain and reduce the swelling or inflammation in the sac around
your heart.

If the cause of pericarditis is an infection:

      * Antibiotics will be used for bacterial infections
      * Antifungal medicines will be used for fungal pericarditis 

Other medicines that may be used are:

      * Corticosteroids such as prednisone (in some people)
      * "Water pills" (diuretics) to remove excess fluid 

If the buildup of fluid makes the heart function poorly, treatment may
include:

      * Draining the fluid from the sac. This procedure, called pericardiocentesis, may be done using a needle, which is guided by ultrasound (echocardiography) in most cases.
      * Cutting a small hole (window) in the pericardium (subxiphoid pericardiotomy) to allow the infected fluid to drain into the abdominal cavity. This is done by a surgeon.

Surgery called pericardiectomy may be needed if the pericarditis is long-
lasting, comes back after treatment, or causes scarring or tightening of the
tissue around the heart. The operation involves cutting or removing part of
the pericardium.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Pericarditis can range from mild illness that gets better on its own, to a
life-threatening condition. Fluid buildup around the heart and poor heart
function can complicate the disorder.

The outcome is good if pericarditis is treated right away. Most people recover
in 2 weeks to 3 months. However, pericarditis may come back. This is called
recurrent, or chronic, if symptoms or episodes continue.

Scarring and thickening of the sac-like covering and the heart muscle may
occur when the problem is severe. This is called constrictive pericarditis. It
can cause long-term problems similar to those of heart failure.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of pericarditis. This disorder is not
life threatening most of the time. However, it can be very dangerous if not
treated.

## Prevention

Many cases cannot be prevented.

## Images

      * ![Pericardium](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18081t.jpg)Pericardium
      * ![Pericarditis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18149t.jpg)Pericarditis

## References

Imazio M, Gaita F, LeWinter M. Evaluation and treatment of pericarditis: A
systematic review. _JAMA_. 2015; 314(14):1498-1506. PMID: 26461998
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26461998.

Knowlton KU, Narezkina A, Savoia MC, Oxman MN. Myocarditis and pericarditis.
In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 86.

LeWinter MM, Imazio M. Pericardial diseases. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO,
Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A
Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2019:chap 83.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pericardial
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PericardialDisorders_thumb.jpg)Pericardial
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

