Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003720.htm    
                                Description: Pericardial fluid culture is a test performed on a sample of fluid from the sac surrounding the heart. It is done to identify organisms that cause infection.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pericardial fluid culture

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003720.htm

# Pericardial fluid culture

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pericardial fluid culture is a test performed on a sample of fluid from the
sac surrounding the heart. It is done to identify organisms that cause
infection.

Pericardial fluid gram stain is a related topic.

## How the Test is Performed

Some people may have a cardiac monitor placed before the test to check for
heart disturbances. Patches called electrodes will be placed on the chest,
similar to during an ECG. A chest x-ray or ultrasound may be done before the
test.

The skin of the chest will be cleaned with antibacterial soap. A health care
provider inserts a small needle into the chest between the ribs into the thin
sac that surrounds the heart (the pericardium). A small amount of fluid is
removed.

You may have an ECG and chest x-ray after the test. Sometimes the pericardial
fluid is taken during open heart surgery.

The sample is sent to a lab. Samples of the fluid are placed on dishes of
growth media to see if bacteria grow. It can take a few days to several weeks
to get the test results.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You will be asked not to eat or drink anything for several hours before the
test. You may have a chest x-ray or ultrasound before the test to identify the
area of fluid collection.

## How the Test will Feel

You will feel some pressure and discomfort when the needle is inserted into
the chest and the fluid is removed. Your provider should be able to give you
pain medicine so that the procedure does not hurt very much.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may order this test if you have signs of a heart sac infection
or if you have pericardial effusion.

The test may also be done if you have pericarditis.

## Normal Results

A normal result means no bacteria or fungi are found in the fluid sample.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to an infection of the pericardium. The specific
organism causing the infection may be identified. More tests may be needed to
determine the most effective treatments.

## Risks

Complications are rare but include:

      * Heart or lung puncture
      * Infection 

## Alternative Names

Culture - pericardial fluid

## Images

      * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
      * ![Pericardial fluid culture](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9731t.jpg)Pericardial fluid culture

## References

Banks AZ, Corey GR. Myocarditis and pericarditis. In: Cohen J, Powderly WG,
Opal SM, eds. _Infectious Diseases_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:446-455.

LeWinter MM, Imazio M. Pericardial diseases. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO,
Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A
Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 83.

Maisch B, Ristic AD. Pericardial diseases. In: Vincent JL, Abraham E, Moore
FA, Kochanek PM, Fink MP, eds. _Textbook of Critical Care_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 84.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pericardial
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PericardialDisorders_thumb.jpg)Pericardial
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

