Link: https://medlineplus.gov/hepatitisc.html    
                                Description: Hepatitis C virus can spread through contact with infected blood, by sharing needles or needle-stick injuries. Learn who should get tested for HCV.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Hepatitis C

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/hepatitisc.html

#  Hepatitis C

Also called: HCV

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is hepatitis C?

Hepatitis is inflammation of the liver. Inflammation is swelling that happens
when tissues of the body are injured or infected. Inflammation can damage
organs.

There are different types of hepatitis. One type, hepatitis C, is caused by
the hepatitis C virus (HCV). Hepatitis C can range from a mild illness lasting
a few weeks to a serious, lifelong illness.

Hepatitis C can be acute or chronic:

    * **Acute hepatitis C** is a short-term infection. The symptoms can last up to 6 months. Sometimes your body is able to fight off the infection and the virus goes away. But for most people, an acute infection leads to chronic infection.
    * **Chronic hepatitis C** is a long-lasting infection. If it is not treated, it can last for a lifetime and cause serious health problems, including liver damage, cirrhosis (scarring of the liver), liver cancer, and even death.

### How is hepatitis C spread?

Hepatitis C spreads through contact with the blood of someone who has HCV.
This contact may be through

    * Sharing drug needles or other drug materials with someone who has HCV. In the United States, this is the most common way that people get hepatitis C.
    * Getting an accidental stick with a needle that was used on someone who has HCV. This can happen in health care settings.
    * Being tattooed or pierced with tools or inks that were not sterilized after being used on someone who has HCV
    * Having contact with the blood or open sores of someone who has HCV
    * Sharing personal care items that may have come in contact with another person's blood, such as razors or toothbrushes
    * Being born to a mother with HCV
    * Having unprotected sex with someone who has HCV

Before 1992, hepatitis C was also commonly spread through blood transfusions
and organ transplants. Since then, there has been routine testing of the U.S.
blood supply for HCV. It is now very rare for someone to get HCV this way.

### Who is at risk for hepatitis C?

You are more likely to get hepatitis C if you

    * Have injected drugs
    * Had a blood transfusion or organ transplant before July 1992
    * Have hemophilia and received clotting factor before 1987
    * Have been on kidney dialysis
    * Were born between 1945 and 1965
    * Have abnormal liver tests or liver disease
    * Have been in contact with blood or infected needles at work
    * Have had tattoos or body piercings
    * Have worked or lived in a prison
    * Were born to a mother with hepatitis C
    * Have HIV/AIDS
    * Have had more than one sex partner in the last 6 months
    * Have had a sexually transmitted disease
    * Are a man who has had sex with men

If you are at high risk for hepatitis C, your health care provider will likely
recommend that you get tested for it.

### What are the symptoms of hepatitis C?

Most people with hepatitis C have no symptoms. Some people with acute
hepatitis C do have symptoms within 1 to 3 months after they are exposed to
the virus. These symptoms may include

    * Dark yellow urine
    * Fatigue
    * Fever
    * Gray- or clay-colored stools
    * Joint pain
    * Loss of appetite
    * Nausea and/or vomiting
    * Pain in your abdomen
    * Jaundice (yellowish eyes and skin)

If you have chronic hepatitis C, you probably will not have symptoms until it
causes complications. This can happen decades after you were infected. For
this reason, hepatitis C screening is important, even if you have no symptoms.

### What other problems can hepatitis C cause?

Without treatment, hepatitis C may lead to cirrhosis, liver failure, and liver
cancer. Early diagnosis and treatment of hepatitis C can prevent these
complications.

### How is hepatitis C diagnosed?

Health care providers diagnose hepatitis C based on your medical history, a
physical exam, and blood tests.

If you do have hepatitis C, you may need additional tests to check for liver
damage. These tests may include other blood tests, an ultrasound of the liver,
and a liver biopsy.

### What are the treatments for hepatitis C?

Treatment for hepatitis C is with antiviral medicines. They can cure the
disease in most cases.

If you have acute hepatitis C, your health care provider may wait to see if
your infection becomes chronic before starting treatment.

If your hepatitis C causes cirrhosis, you should see a doctor who specializes
in liver diseases. Treatments for health problems related to cirrhosis include
medicines, surgery, and other medical procedures. If your hepatitis C leads to
liver failure or liver cancer, you may need a liver transplant.

### Can hepatitis C be prevented?

There is no vaccine for hepatitis C. But you can help protect yourself from
hepatitis C infection by

    * Not sharing drug needles or other drug materials
    * Wearing gloves if you have to touch another person's blood or open sores
    * Making sure your tattoo artist or body piercer uses sterile tools and unopened ink
    * Not sharing personal items such toothbrushes, razors, or nail clippers
    * Using a condom when you have sex

NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Start Here

    * Hepatitis C (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Hepatitis C (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Hepatitis C ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
    * Hepatitis C FAQs for the Public (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * CDC Vital Signs: Hepatitis C: Testing Baby Boomers Saves Lives (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Hepatitis C Screening in the Behavioral Healthcare Setting (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration)
    * Hepatitis C Test (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
    * Hepatitis C: What to Expect When Getting Tested (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF
    * Hepatitis Testing: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Know More Hepatitis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Liver Function Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * 5 Things You Should Know about Dietary Supplements for Hepatitis C ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Alternative and Complementary Therapies for Hepatitis C (Department of Veterans Affairs)
    * Hepatitis C and Dietary Supplements ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Hepatitis C: Treatment (Department of Veterans Affairs)
    * Patient Treatment Tracking Chart (Department of Veterans Affairs)

## Living With

    * Hepatitis C: Diet and Nutrition (Department of Veterans Affairs)
    * Hepatitis C: Managing Pain (Department of Veterans Affairs)
    * Hepatitis C: Mental Health (Department of Veterans Affairs)
    * Tips to Lessen Common Side Effects of HCV Therapy (American College of Gastroenterology) \- PDF

## Related Issues

    * Alcohol and Hepatitis (Department of Veterans Affairs)
    * HCV and Rheumatic Disease (American College of Rheumatology) Also in Spanish
    * Hepatitis B & C and HIV (AIDS.gov)
    * Hepatitis C: Questions to Ask Your Doctor about Treatment (Department of Veterans Affairs)
    * Hepatitis C: Questions to Ask Your Doctor about Your Diagnosis (Department of Veterans Affairs)
    * Hepatitis C: Sex and Sexuality (Department of Veterans Affairs)
    * Hepatitis C: What Happens in End-Stage Liver Disease? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * HIV and Hepatitis C ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo) Also in Spanish
    * HIV/AIDS and Viral Hepatitis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Travelers' Health: Hepatitis C (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Vaccinations for Adults with Chronic Liver Disease or Infection (Immunization Action Coalition) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Statistics and Research

    * Hepatitis C and Dietary Supplements: What the Science Says ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Surveillance for Viral Hepatitis - United States, 2014 (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hepatitis C ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * Hepatitis C: Clinical Trials (Department of Veterans Affairs)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Screening and Treatment Program to Eliminate Hepatitis C in Egypt.
    * Article: Universal Disease Screening and Treatment - The Egyptian Example.
    * Article: Hepatitis C virus treatment response to ledipasvir/sofosbuvir among patients coinfected with...
    * Hepatitis C -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
    * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
    * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * Hepatitis (Nemours Foundation)
    * What is Hepatitis C and Why Should I Be Concerned about It? (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

    * Hepatitis (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Hepatitis C (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Hepatitis C ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
    * Hepatitis C -- children (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Hepatitis virus panel (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Preventing hepatitis B or C (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Hepatitis C](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HepatitisC.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Cryoglobulins
    * Hepatitis C
    * Hepatitis C -- children
    * Hepatitis virus panel
    * Liver biopsy
    * Preventing hepatitis B or C

## Related Health Topics

    * Hepatitis
    * Hepatitis A
    * Hepatitis B
    * Hepatitis Testing
    * Liver Diseases
    * Liver Transplantation

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Hepatitis C is the National
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 18 November 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

