Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000194.htm    
                                Description: Cardiac tamponade is pressure on the heart that occurs when blood or fluid builds up in the space between the heart muscle and the outer covering sac of the heart.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cardiac tamponade

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000194.htm

# Cardiac tamponade

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cardiac tamponade is pressure on the heart that occurs when blood or fluid
builds up in the space between the heart muscle and the outer covering sac of
the heart.

## Causes

In this condition, blood or fluid collects in the sac surrounding the heart.
This prevents the heart ventricles from expanding fully. The excess pressure
from the fluid prevents the heart from working properly. As a result, the body
does not get enough blood.

Cardiac tamponade can occur due to:

      * Dissecting aortic aneurysm (thoracic)
      * End-stage lung cancer
      * Heart attack (acute MI)
      * Heart surgery
      * Pericarditis caused by bacterial or viral infections
      * Wounds to the heart 

Other possible causes include:

      * Heart tumors
      * Underactive thyroid gland
      * Kidney failure
      * Leukemia
      * Placement of central lines
      * Radiation therapy to the chest
      * Recent invasive heart procedures
      * Systemic lupus erythematosus
      * Dermatomyositis
      * Heart failure

Cardiac tamponade due to disease occurs in about 2 out of 10,000 people.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Anxiety, restlessness
      * Sharp chest pain that is felt in the neck, shoulder, back, or abdomen
      * Chest pain that gets worse with deep breathing or coughing
      * Problems breathing
      * Discomfort, sometimes relieved by sitting upright or leaning forward
      * Fainting, lightheadedness
      * Pale, gray, or blue skin
      * Palpitations
      * Rapid breathing
      * Swelling of the legs or abdomen
      * Jaundice

Other symptoms that may occur with this disorder:

      * Dizziness
      * Drowsiness
      * Weak or absent pulse 

## Exams and Tests

Echocardiogram is the test of choice to help make the diagnosis. This test may
be done at the bedside in emergency cases.

A physical exam may show:

      * Blood pressure that falls when breathing deeply
      * Rapid breathing
      * Heart rate over 100 (normal is 60 to 100 beats per minute)
      * Heart sounds are only faintly heard through a stethoscope
      * Neck veins that may be bulging (distended) but the blood pressure is low
      * Weak or absent peripheral pulses 

Other tests may include:

      * Chest CT or MRI of chest
      * Chest x-ray
      * Coronary angiography
      * ECG
      * Right heart catheterization 

## Treatment

Cardiac tamponade is an emergency condition that needs to be treated in the
hospital.

The fluid around the heart must be drained as quickly as possible. A procedure
that uses a needle to remove fluid from the tissue that surrounds the heart
will be done.

A surgical procedure to cut and remove part of the covering of the heartÂ
(pericardium) may also be done. This is known as surgical pericardiectomy or
pericardial window.

Fluids are given to keep blood pressure normal until the fluid can be drained
from around the heart. Medicines that increase blood pressure may also help
keep the person alive until the fluid is drained.

Oxygen may be given to help reduce the workload on the heart by decreasing
tissue demands for blood flow.

The cause of tamponade must be found and treated.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Death due to cardiac tamponadeÂ can occur quickly if the fluid or blood is not
removed promptly from the pericardium.

The outcome is often good if the condition is treated promptly. However,
tamponade may come back.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Heart failure
      * Pulmonary edema
      * Bleeding
      * Shock
      * Death

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
symptoms develop. Cardiac tamponade is an emergency condition that needs
immediate medical attention.

## Prevention

Many cases can't be prevented. Knowing your personal risk factors may help you
get early diagnosis and treatment.

## Alternative Names

Tamponade; Pericardial tamponade; Pericarditis - tamponade

## Images

      * ![Heart - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view
      * ![Pericardium](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18081t.jpg)Pericardium
      * ![Cardiac tamponade](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18123t.jpg)Cardiac tamponade

## References

LeWinter MM, Imazio M. Pericardial diseases. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO,
Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A
Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 83.

Little WC, Oh JK. Pericardial diseases. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 77.

Mallemat HA, Tewelde SZ. Pericardiocentesis. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB,
Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency
Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 16.

## Review Date 5/15/2018

Updated by: Mary C. Mancini, MD, PhD, Director, Cardiothoracic Surgery,
Christus Highland Medical Center, Shreveport, LA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pericardial
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PericardialDisorders_thumb.jpg)Pericardial
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

