Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003872.htm    
                                Description: Pericardiocentesis is a procedure that uses a needle to remove fluid from the pericardial sac. This is the tissue that surrounds the heart.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pericardiocentesis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003872.htm

# Pericardiocentesis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pericardiocentesis is a procedure that uses a needle to remove fluid from the
pericardial sac. This is the tissue that surrounds the heart.

## How the Test is Performed

The procedure is most often done in a special procedure room, such as a
cardiac catheterization laboratory. It may also be done at a patient's
hospital bedside. A health care provider will put an IV into your arm in case
fluids or medicines need to be given through a vein. For example, you may be
given medicines if your heartbeat slows or your blood pressure drops during
the procedure.

The provider will clean an area just below or next to the breastbone or below
the left nipple. Numbing medicine (anesthetic) will be applied to the area.

The doctor will then insert a needle and guide it into tissue that surrounds
the heart. Often, echocardiography (ultrasound) is used to help the doctor see
the needle and any fluid drainage. An electrocardiogram (ECG) and x-rays
(fluoroscopy) may also be used to help with positioning.

![Pericardium](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/8895.jpg)

Once the needle has reached the correct area, it is removed and replaced with
a tube called a catheter. Fluid drains through this tube into containers. Most
of the time, the pericardial catheter is left in place so draining may
continue for several hours.

Surgical drainage may be needed if the problem is hard to correct or comes
back. This is a more invasive procedure in which the pericardium is drained
into the chest (pleural) cavity. Alternatively, the fluid may be drained into
the peritoneal cavity, but this is less common. This procedure may need to be
done under general anesthesia.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may not be able to eat or drink for 6 hours before the test. You must sign
a consent form.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel pressure as the needle enters. Some people have chest pain, which
may require pain medicine.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test may be done to remove and examine fluid that is pressing on the
heart. It is most often done to find the cause of a chronic or recurrent
pericardial effusion.

It may also be done to treat cardiac tamponade, which is a life-threatening
condition.

## Normal Results

There is normally a small amount of clear, straw-colored fluid in the
pericardial space.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal findings may indicate the cause of pericardial fluid accumulation,
such as:

      * Cancer
      * Cardiac perforation
      * Cardiac trauma
      * Congestive heart failure
      * Pericarditis
      * Renal failure
      * Infection
      * Rupture of a ventricular aneurysm

## Risks

Risks may include:

      * Bleeding
      * Collapsed lung
      * Heart attack
      * Infection (pericarditis)
      * Irregular heartbeats (arrhythmias)
      * Puncture of the heart muscle, coronary artery, lung, liver, or stomach
      * Pneumopericardium (air in the pericardial sac) 

## Alternative Names

Pericardial tap; Percutaneous pericardiocentesis; Pericarditis -
pericardiocentesis; Pericardial effusion - pericardiocentesis

## Images

      * ![Heart - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view
      * ![Pericardium](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8895t.jpg)Pericardium

## References

Lewinter MM, Imazio M. Pericardial diseases. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO,
Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A
Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 83.

Little WC, Oh JK. Pericardial diseases. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 77.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pericardial
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PericardialDisorders_thumb.jpg)Pericardial
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

