Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003719.htm    
                                Description: Pericardial fluid Gram stain is a method of staining a sample of fluid taken from the pericardium. This is the sac surrounding the heart to diagnose a bacterial infection. The Gram stain method is one    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pericardial fluid Gram stain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003719.htm

# Pericardial fluid Gram stain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pericardial fluid Gram stain is a method of staining a sample of fluid taken
from the pericardium. This is the sac surrounding the heart to diagnose a
bacterial infection. The Gram stain method is one of the most commonly used
techniques to rapidly identify the cause of bacterial infections.

## How the Test is Performed

A sample of fluid will be taken from the pericardium. This is done through a
procedure called pericardiocentesis. Before this is done, you may have a heart
monitor to check for heart problems. Patches called electrodes are put on the
chest, similar to during an electrocardiogram (ECG). You will have a chest
x-ray or ultrasound before the test.

The skin of the chest is cleaned with antibacterial soap. The doctor then
inserts a small needle into the chest between the ribs and into the
pericardium. A small amount of fluid is taken out.

You may have an ECG and chest x-ray after the procedure. Sometimes, the
pericardial fluid is taken during open heart surgery.

A drop of the pericardial fluid is spread in a very thin layer on a microscope
slide. This is called a smear. A series of special stains are applied to the
sample. This is called a Gram stain. A laboratory specialist looks at the
stained slide under the microscope, checking for bacteria.

The color, size, and shape of the cells help identify the bacteria, if
present.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You will be asked not to eat or drink anything for several hours before the
test. A chest x-ray or ultrasound may be done before the test to identify the
area of fluid collection.

## How the Test will Feel

You will feel pressure and some pain as the needle is inserted into the chest
and when the fluid is removed. Your health care provider will likely give you
pain medicine so that the procedure is not too uncomfortable.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may order this test if you have signs of a heart infection
(myocarditis) or a pericardial effusion (fluid buildup of the pericardium)
with an unknown cause.

## Normal Results

A normal result means no bacteria are seen in the stained fluid sample.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

If bacteria are present, you may have an infection of the pericardium or
heart. Blood tests and bacterial culture can help identify the specific
organism causing the infection.

## Risks

Complications are rare but may include:

      * Heart or lung puncture
      * Infection 

## Alternative Names

Gram stain of pericardial fluid

## Images

      * ![Pericardial fluid stain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9732t.jpg)Pericardial fluid stain

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Pericardiocentesis - diagnostic. In: Chernecky CC,
Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:864-866.

LeWinter MM, Imazio M. Pericardial diseases. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO,
Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A
Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 83.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pericardial
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PericardialDisorders_thumb.jpg)Pericardial
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

