Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002976.htm    
                                Description: Carpal tunnel release is surgery to treat carpal tunnel syndrome. Carpal tunnel syndrome is pain and weakness in the hand that is caused by pressure on the median nerve in the wrist.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Carpal tunnel release

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002976.htm

# Carpal tunnel release

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Carpal tunnel release is surgery to treat carpal tunnel syndrome. Carpal
tunnel syndrome is pain and weakness in the hand that is caused by pressure on
the median nerve in the wrist.

## Description

The median nerve and the tendons that flex (or curl) your fingers go through a
passage called the carpal tunnel in your wrist. This tunnel is narrow, so any
swelling can pinch the nerve and cause pain. A thick ligament (tissue) just
under your skin (the carpal ligament) makes up the top of this tunnel. During
the operation, the surgeon cuts through the carpal ligament to make more space
for the nerve and tendons.

The surgery is done in the following way:

      * First, you receive numbing medicine so that you do not feel pain during surgery. You may be awake but you will also receive medicines to make you relax.
      * A small surgical cut is made in the palm of your hand near your wrist.
      * Next, the ligament that covers the carpal tunnel is cut. This eases the pressure on the median nerve. Sometimes, tissue around the nerve is removed as well.
      * The skin and tissue underneath your skin are closed with sutures (stitches). 

Sometimes this procedure is done using a tiny camera attached to a monitor.
The surgeon inserts the camera into your wrist through a very small surgical
cut and views the monitor to see inside your wrist. This is called endoscopic
surgery. The instrument used is called an endoscope.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

PeopleÂ with symptoms of carpal tunnel syndrome usually try nonsurgical
treatments first. These may include:

      * Anti-inflammatory medicines
      * Therapy to learn exercises and stretches
      * Workplace changes to improve your seating and how you use your computer or other equipment
      * Wrist splints
      * Shots of corticosteroid medicine into the carpal tunnel 

If none of these treatments help, some surgeons will test the electrical
activity of the median nerve with an EMG (electromyogram). If the test shows
that the problem is carpal tunnel syndrome, carpal tunnel release surgery may
be recommended.

If the muscles in your hand and wrist are getting smaller because the nerve is
being pinched, surgery will usually be done soon.

## Risks

Risks for this surgery are:

      * Allergic reactions to medicines
      * Bleeding 
      * Infection
      * Injury to the median nerve or nerves that branch off of it
      * Weakness and numbness around the hand
      * In rare cases, injury to another nerve or blood vessel (artery or vein)
      * Scar tenderness

## Before the Procedure

Before the surgery, you should:

      * Tell your surgeon what medicines you are taking. This includes medicines, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription.
      * You may be asked to temporarily stop taking your blood-thinning drugs. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Naprosyn, Aleve), and other drugs.
      * Ask your provider which medicines you should still take on the day of your surgery.
      * If you smoke, try to stop. Ask your provider for help. Smoking can slow healing.
      * Let your provider know about any cold, flu, fever, herpes breakout, or other illness. If you do get sick, your surgery may need to be postponed. 

On the day of surgery:

      * Follow instructions about whether you need to stop eating or drinking before surgery.
      * Take any drugs you're asked to take with a small sip of water.
      * Follow instructions on when to arrive at the hospital. Be sure to arrive on time. 

## After the Procedure

This surgery is done on an outpatient basis. You will not need to stay in the
hospital.

After the surgery, your wrist will probably be in a splint or heavy bandage
for about a week. Keep this on until your first doctor visit after surgery,
and keep it clean and dry. After the splint or bandage is removed, you will
begin motion exercises or a physical therapy program.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Carpal tunnel release decreases pain, nerve tingling, and numbness, and
restores muscle strength. Most people are helped by this surgery.

The length of your recovery will depend on how long you had symptoms before
surgery and how badly damaged your median nerve is. If you had symptoms for a
long time, you may not be completely free of symptoms after you recover.

## Alternative Names

Median nerve decompression; Carpal tunnel decompression; Surgery - carpal
tunnel

## Patient Instructions

      * Surgical wound care - open

## Images

      * ![Carpal tunnel syndrome](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1081t.jpg)Carpal tunnel syndrome
      * ![Surface anatomy - normal palm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1759t.jpg)Surface anatomy - normal palm
      * ![Surface anatomy - normal wrist](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1762t.jpg)Surface anatomy - normal wrist
      * ![Wrist anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8986t.jpg)Wrist anatomy
      * ![Carpal tunnel repair - Series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10206t.jpg)Carpal tunnel repair - series

## References

Calandruccio JH. Carpal tunnel syndrome, ulnar tunnel syndrome, and stenosing
tenosynovitis. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative
Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 76.

Mackinnon SE, Novak CB. Compression neuropathies. In: Wolfe SW, Hotchkiss RN,
Pederson WC, Kozin SH, Cohen MS, eds. _Green's Operative Hand Surgery_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 28.

Zhao M, Burke DT. Median neuropathy (carpal tunnel syndrome). In: Frontera WR,
Silver JK, Rizzo TD, eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation:
Musculoskeletal Disorders, Pain, and Rehabilitation_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 36.

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Carpal Tunnel
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CarpalTunnelSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Carpal
Tunnel Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

