Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002371.htm    
                                Description: A gene is a short piece of DNA. Genes tell the body how to build specific proteins. There are about 20,000 genes in each cell of the human body. Together, they make up the blueprint for the human body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Genes

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002371.htm

# Genes

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A gene is a short piece of DNA. Genes tell the body how to build specific
proteins. There are about 20,000 genes in each cell of the human body.
Together, they make up the blueprint for the human body and how it works.

A person's genetic makeup is called a genotype.

## Information

Genes are made of DNA. Strands of DNA make up part of your chromosomes.
Chromosomes have matching pairs of 1 copy of a specific gene. The gene occurs
in the same position on each chromosome.

Genetic traits, such as eye color, are dominant or recessive:

      * Dominant traits are controlled by 1 gene in the pair of chromosomes.
      * Recessive traits need both genes in the gene pair to work together.

Many personal characteristics, such as height, are determined by more than 1
gene. However, some diseases, such as sickle cell anemia, can be caused by a
change in a single gene.

## Images

      * ![Chromosomes and DNA](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8770t.jpg)Chromosomes and DNA

## References

Gene. Taber's Medical Dictionary Online.
www.tabers.com/tabersonline/view/Tabers-Dictionary/729952/all/gene. Accessed
June 11, 2019.

Nussbaum RL, McInnes RR, Willard HF. The human genome: gene structure and
function. In: Nussbaum RL, McInnes RR, Willard HF, eds. _Thompson & Thompson
Genetics in Medicine_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 3.

## Review Date 5/13/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Genes and Gene
Therapy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GenesandGeneTherapy_thumb.jpg)Genes
and Gene Therapy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

