Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002048.htm    
                                Description: Genetics is the study of heredity, the process of a parent passing certain genesÂ to their children. A person    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Genetics

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002048.htm

# Genetics

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Genetics is the study of heredity, the process of a parent passing certain
genesÂ to their children. A person's appearance -- height, hair color, skin
color, and eye color --Â is determined by genes. Other characteristics
affected by heredity are:

      * Likelihood of getting certain diseases
      * Mental abilities
      * Natural talents

An abnormal trait (anomaly) that is passed down through families (inherited)
may:

      * Have no effect on your health or well-being. For example, the trait might just cause a white patch of hair or an earlobe that is longer than normal.
      * Have only a minor effect, such as color blindness. 
      * Have a major effect on your quality or length of life.

For most genetic disorders, genetic counseling is advised. Many couples may
also want to seek prenatal diagnosis if one of them has a genetic disorder.

## Information

Human beings have cells with 46 chromosomes. These consist of 2 chromosomes
that determine what sex they are (X and Y chromosomes), and 22 pairs of nonsex
(autosomal) chromosomes. Males are "46,XY" and females are "46,XX." The
chromosomes are made up of strands of genetic information called DNA. Each
chromosome contains sections of DNA called genes. The genes carry the
information needed by your body to make certain proteins.

Each pair of autosomal chromosomes contains one chromosome from the mother and
one from the father. Each chromosome in a pair carries basically the same
information; that is, each chromosome pair has the same genes. Sometimes there
are slight variations of these genes. These variations occur in less than 1%
of the DNA sequence. The genes that have these variations are called alleles.

Some of these variations can result in a gene that is abnormal. An abnormal
gene may lead to an abnormal protein or an abnormal amount of a normal
protein. In a pair of autosomal chromosomes, there are two copies of each
gene, one from each parent. If one of these genes is abnormal, the other one
may make enough protein so that no disease develops. When this happens, the
abnormal gene is called recessive. Recessive genes are said to be inherited in
an autosomal recessive pattern. If two copies of the abnormal gene are
present, disease may develop.

However, if only one abnormal gene is needed to produce a disease, it leads to
a dominant hereditary disorder. In the case of a dominant disorder, if one
abnormal gene is inherited from the mother or father, the child will likely
show the disease.

A person with one abnormal gene is called heterozygous for that gene. If a
child receives an abnormal recessive disease gene from both parents, the child
will show the disease and will be homozygous (or compound heterozygous) for
that gene.

GENETIC DISORDERS

Almost all diseases have a genetic component. However, the importance of that
component varies. Disorders in which genes play an important role (genetic
diseases) can be classified as:

      * Single-gene defects
      * Chromosomal disorders
      * Multifactorial 

A single-gene disorder (also called Mendelian disorder) is caused by a defect
in one particular gene. Single gene defects are rare. But since there are many
thousands of known single gene disorders, their combined impact is
significant.

Single-gene disorders are characterized by how they are passed down in
families. There areÂ 6 basic patterns of single gene inheritance:

      * Autosomal dominant
      * Autosomal recessive
      * X-linked dominant
      * X-linked recessive
      * Y-linked inheritance
      * Maternal (mitochondrial) inheritance 

The observed effect of a gene (the appearance of a disorder) is called the
phenotype.

In autosomal dominant inheritance, the abnormality or abnormalities usually
appear in every generation. Each time an affected parent, either male or
female, has a child, that child has a 50% chance of inheriting the disease.

People with one copy of a recessive disease gene are called carriers. Carriers
usually don't have symptoms of the disease. But, the gene can often be found
by sensitive laboratory tests.

In autosomal recessive inheritance, the parents of an affected individual may
not show the disease (they are carriers). On average, the chance that carrier
parents could have children who develop the disease is 25% with each
pregnancy. Male and female children are equally likely to be affected. For a
child to have symptoms of an autosomal recessive disorder, the child must
receive the abnormal gene from both parents. Because most recessive disorders
are rare, a child is at increased risk of a recessive disease if the parents
are related. Related individuals are more likely to have inherited the same
rare gene from a common ancestor.

In X-linked recessive inheritance, the chance of getting the disease is much
higher in males than females. Since the abnormal gene is carried on the X
(female) chromosome, males do not transmit it to their sons (who will receive
the Y chromosome from their fathers). However, they do transmit it to their
daughters. In females, the presence of one normal X chromosome masks the
effects of the X chromosome with the abnormal gene. So, almost all of the
daughters of an affected man appear normal, but they are all carriers of the
abnormal gene. Each time these daughters bear a son, there is a 50% chance the
son will receive the abnormal gene.

In X-linked dominant inheritance, the abnormal gene appears in females even if
there is also a normal X chromosome present. Since males pass the Y chromosome
to their sons, affected males will not have affected sons. All of their
daughters will be affected, however. Sons or daughters of affected females
will have a 50% chance of getting the disease.

EXAMPLES OF SINGLE GENE DISORDERS

Autosomal recessive:

      * ADA deficiency (sometimes called the "boy in a bubble" disease)
      * Alpha-1-antitrypsin (AAT) deficiency
      * Cystic fibrosis (CF)
      * Phenylketonuria (PKU)
      * Sickle cell anemia

X-linked recessive:

      * Duchenne muscular dystrophy
      * Hemophilia A

Autosomal dominant:

      * Familial hypercholesterolemia
      * Marfan syndrome

X-linked dominant:

Only a few, rare, disorders are X-linked dominant. One of these is
hypophosphatemic rickets, also called vitamin D -resistant rickets.

CHROMOSOMAL DISORDERS

In chromosomal disorders, the defect is due to either an excess or lack of the
genes contained in a whole chromosome or chromosome segment.

Chromosomal disorders include:

      * 22q11.2 microdeletion syndrome
      * Down syndrome
      * Klinefelter syndrome
      * Turner syndrome

MULTIFACTORIAL DISORDERS

Many of the most common diseases are caused by interactions of several genes
and factors in the environment (for example, illnesses in the mother and
medications). These include:

      * Asthma
      * Cancer
      * Coronary heart disease
      * Diabetes
      * Hypertension
      * Stroke

MITOCHONDRIAL DNA-LINKED DISORDERS

Mitochondria are small structures found in most of the body's cells. They are
responsible for energy production inside cells. Mitochondria contain their own
private DNA.

In recent years, many disorders have been shown to result from changes
(mutations) in mitochondrial DNA. Because mitochondria come only from the
female egg, most mitochondrial DNA-related disorders are passed down from the
mother.

Mitochondrial DNA-related disorders can appear at any age. They have a wide
variety of symptoms and signs. These disorders may cause:

      * Blindness
      * Developmental delay
      * Gastrointestinal problems
      * Hearing loss
      * Heart rhythm problems
      * Metabolic disturbances
      * Short stature 

Some other disorders are also known as mitochondrial disorders, but they do
not involve mutations in the mitochondrial DNA. These disorders are most often
single gene defects. They follow the same pattern of inheritance as other
single gene disorders. Most are autosomal recessive.

## Alternative Names

Homozygous; Inheritance; Heterozygous; Inheritance patterns; Heredity and
disease; Heritable; Genetic markers

## Images

      * ![Genetics](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9346t.jpg)Genetics

## References

Feero WG, Zazove P, Chen F. Clinical genomics. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
43.

Korf BR. Principles of genetics. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 40.

Scott DA, Lee B. The genetic approach in pediatric medicine. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 78.

## Review Date 1/10/2018

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Genes and Gene
Therapy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GenesandGeneTherapy_thumb.jpg)Genes
and Gene Therapy _Read more_

![Genetic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GeneticDisorders_thumb.jpg)Genetic
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

