Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000947.htm    
                                Description: Cocaine withdrawal occurs when someone who has used a lot of cocaine cuts down or quits taking the drug. Symptoms of withdrawal can occur even if the user is not completely off cocaine and still has some    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cocaine withdrawal

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000947.htm

# Cocaine withdrawal

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cocaine withdrawal occurs when someone who has used a lot of cocaine cuts down
or quits taking the drug. Symptoms of withdrawal can occur even if the user is
not completely off cocaine and still has some of the drug in their blood.

## Causes

Cocaine produces a sense of euphoria (extreme mood elevation) by causing the
brain to release higher than normal amounts of some chemicals. But, cocaine's
effects on other parts of the body can be very serious, or even deadly.

When cocaine use is stopped or when a binge ends, a crash follows almost right
away. The cocaine user has a strong craving for more cocaine during a crash.
Other symptoms include fatigue, lack of pleasure, anxiety, irritability,
sleepiness, and sometimes agitation or extreme suspicion or paranoia.

Cocaine withdrawal often has no visible physical symptoms, such as the
vomiting and shaking that accompany withdrawal from heroin or alcohol.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of cocaine withdrawal may include:

      * Agitation and restless behavior
      * Depressed mood
      * Fatigue
      * General feeling of discomfort 
      * Increased appetite
      * Vivid and unpleasant dreams
      * Slowing of activity

The craving and depression can last for months after stopping long-term heavy
use. Withdrawal symptoms may also be associated with suicidal thoughts in some
people.

During withdrawal, there can be powerful, intense cravings for cocaine. The
"high" associated with ongoing use may become less and less pleasant. It can
produce fear and extreme suspicion rather than euphoria. Even so, the cravings
may remain powerful.

## Exams and Tests

A physical examination and history of cocaine use are often all that is needed
to diagnose this condition. However, routine testing will likely be done. It
may include:

      * Blood tests
      * Cardiac enzymes (to look for evidence of heart damage or heart attack)
      * Chest x-ray
      * ECG (electrocardiogram, to measure electrical activity in the heart)
      * Toxicology (poison and drug) screening
      * Urinalysis

## Treatment

Symptoms of withdrawal usually disappear over time. If symptoms are severe, a
live-in treatment program may be recommended. There, medicines may be used to
treat the symptoms. Counseling may help end the addiction. And, the person's
health and safety can be monitored during recovery.

## Support Groups

Resources that may help during recovery include:

      * Partnership for Drug-Free-Kids -- www.drugfree.org
      * LifeRing -- lifering.org
      * SMART Recovery -- www.smartrecovery.org

A workplace employee assistance program (EAP) is also a good resource.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Cocaine addiction is difficult to treat, and relapse can occur. Treatment
should start with the least restrictive option. Outpatient care is as
effective as inpatient care for most people.

Withdrawal from cocaine may not be as unstable as withdrawal from alcohol.
However, the withdrawal from any chronic substance use is very serious. There
is a risk of suicide or overdose.

People who have cocaine withdrawal will often use alcohol, sedatives,
hypnotics, or anti-anxiety medicines to treat their symptoms. Long-term use of
these drugs is not recommended because it simply shifts addiction from one
substance to another. Under proper medical supervision, however, short-term
use of these medicines may be helpful in recovery.

Presently, there are no medicines to reduce craving, but research is taking
place.

## Possible Complications

Complications of cocaine withdrawal include:

      * Depression
      * Craving and overdose
      * Suicide 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you use cocaine and need help to stop using
it.

## Prevention

Avoid cocaine use. If you use cocaine and wish to stop, talk with a provider.
Also try to avoid people, places, and things you associate with the drug. If
you find yourself thinking about the euphoria produced by cocaine, force
yourself to think of the negative outcomes that follow its use.

## Alternative Names

Withdrawal from cocaine; Substance use - cocaine withdrawal; Substance abuse -
cocaine withdrawal; Drug abuse - cocaine withdrawal; Detox - cocaine

## Images

      * ![Electrocardiogram \(ECG\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8772t.jpg)Electrocardiogram (ECG)

## References

Kowalchuk A, Reed BC. Substance use disorders. Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 50.

National Institute on Drug Abuse website. What is cocaine?
www.drugabuse.gov/publications/research-reports/cocaine/what-cocaine. Updated
May 2016. Accessed February 14, 2019.

Weiss RD. Drugs of abuse. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 34.

## Review Date 1/12/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cocaine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cocaine2_thumb.jpg)Cocaine _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

