Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000946.htm    
                                Description:  Cocaine is an illegal stimulant drug that affects your central nervous system. Cocaine comes from the coca plant. When used, cocaine causes the brain to release higher than normal amounts of some chemicals.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cocaine intoxication

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000946.htm

# Cocaine intoxication

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cocaine is an illegal stimulant drug that affects your central nervous system.
Cocaine comes from the coca plant. When used, cocaine causes the brain to
release higher than normal amounts of some chemicals. These produce a sense of
euphoria, or a "high."

Cocaine intoxication is a condition in which you're not only high from using
the drug, but you also have body-wide symptoms that can make you ill and
impaired.

## Causes

Cocaine intoxication may be caused by:

      * Taking too much cocaine, or too concentrated a form of cocaine
      * Using cocaine when the weather is hot, which leads to more harm and side effects because of dehydration
      * Using cocaine with certain other drugs

## Symptoms

Symptoms of cocaine intoxication include:

      * Feeing high, excited, talking and rambling, sometimes about bad things happening
      * Anxiety, agitation, restlessness, confusion
      * Muscle tremors, such as in the face and fingers
      * Enlarged pupils that don't get smaller when a light shines into the eyes
      * Increased heart rate and blood pressure 
      * Lightheadedness
      * Paleness
      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Fever, sweating

With higher doses, or an overdose, more severe symptoms can occur, including:

      * Seizures
      * Loss of awareness of surroundings
      * Loss of urine control
      * High body temperature, severe sweating
      * High blood pressure, very fast heart rate or irregular heart rhythm
      * Bluish color of the skin
      * Fast or difficulty breathing
      * Death  

Cocaine is often cut (mixed) with other substances. When taken,Â additional
symptoms can occur.

## Exams and Tests

If cocaine intoxication is suspected, the health care provider may order the
following tests:

      * Cardiac enzymes (to look for evidence of heart damage or heart attack)
      * Chest x-ray
      * CT scan of the head, if head injury or bleeding is suspected
      * ECG (electrocardiogram, to measure electrical activity in the heart)
      * Toxicology (poison and drug) screening
      * Urinalysis 

## Treatment

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure.

Symptoms will be treated as appropriate. The person may receive:

      * Breathing support, including oxygen, a tube down the throat, and ventilator (breathing machine)
      * IV fluids (fluids through a vein)
      * Medicines to treat symptoms such as pain, anxiety, agitation, nausea, seizures, and high blood pressure
      * Other medicines or treatments for heart, brain, muscle, and kidney complications 

Long-term treatment requires drug counseling in combination with medical
therapy.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook depends on the amount of cocaine used and what organs are
affected. Permanent damage may occur, which may cause:

      * Seizures, stroke, and paralysis
      * Chronic anxiety and psychosis (severe mental disorders)
      * Decreased mental functioning
      * Heart irregularities and decreased heart function
      * Kidney failure requiring dialysis (kidney machine)
      * Destruction of muscles, which can lead to amputation

## Alternative Names

Intoxication - cocaine

## Images

      * ![Electrocardiogram \(ECG\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8772t.jpg)Electrocardiogram (ECG)

## References

Aronson JK. Cocaine. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of Drugs_.
16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:492-542.

Rao RB, Hoffman RS, Erickson TB. Cocaine and other sympathomimetics. In: Walls
RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts
and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 149.

## Review Date 1/12/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cocaine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cocaine2_thumb.jpg)Cocaine _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

