Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000793.htm    
                                Description: Cocaine is made from the leaves of the coca plant. Cocaine comes as a white powder, which can be dissolved in water. It is available as a powder or liquid.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Substance use - cocaine

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000793.htm

# Substance use - cocaine

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cocaine is made from the leaves of the coca plant. Cocaine comes as a white
powder, which can be dissolved in water. It is available as a powder or
liquid.

As a street drug, cocaine can be taken in different ways:

      * Inhaling it through the nose (snorting)
      * Dissolving it in water and injecting it into a vein (shooting up)
      * Mixing with heroin and injecting into a vein (speedballing)
      * Smoking it (this type of cocaine is called freebase or crack) 

Street names for cocaine include blow, bump, C, candy, Charlie, coca, coke,
flake, rock, snow, speedball, toot.

## Cocaine's Effects on Your Brain

Cocaine is a strong stimulant. Stimulants make the messages between your brain
and body move faster. As a result, you are more alert and physically active.

Cocaine also causes the brain to release dopamine. Dopamine is a chemical that
is involved with mood and thinking. It is also called the feel-good brain
chemical. Using cocaine may cause pleasurable effects such as:

      * Joy (euphoria, or a "flash" or "rush") and less inhibition, similar to being drunk
      * Feeling as if your thinking is extremely clear
      * Feeling more in control, self-confident
      * Wanting to be with and talk to people (more sociable)
      * Increased energy 

How fast you feel the effects of cocaine depends on how it is used:

      * Smoking: Effects start right away and are intense and last 5 to 10 minutes.
      * Injecting into a vein: Effects start within 15 to 30 seconds and last 20 to 60 minutes.
      * Snorting: Effects start in 3 to 5 minutes, are less intense than smoking or injecting, and last 15 to 30 minutes. 

## Harmful Effects of Cocaine

Cocaine can harm the body in many ways and lead to:

      * Appetite decrease and weight loss
      * Heart problems, such as fast heart rate, irregular heartbeat, increased blood pressure, and heart attacks
      * High body temperature and skin flushing
      * Memory loss, problems thinking clearly, and strokes
      * Mood and emotional problems, aggressive or violent behavior, and hallucinations
      * Restlessness, tremors, seizures
      * Sleep problems
      * Kidney damage
      * Problems breathing
      * Death 

People who use cocaine have a high chance of getting HIV/AIDS and hepatitis B
and C. This is from activities such as sharing used needles with someone who
is already infected with one of these diseases. Other risky behaviors that can
be linked to drug use, such as having unsafe sex, can also increase the chance
of becoming infected with one of these diseases.

Using too much cocaine can cause an overdose. This is known as cocaine
intoxication. Symptoms can include enlarged pupils of the eye, sweating,
tremors, confusion, and sudden death.

Cocaine can cause birth defects when taken during pregnancy and is not safe
during breastfeeding.

## Cocaine can be Addictive

Using cocaine can lead to addiction. This means your mind is dependent on
cocaine. You are not able to control your use of it and need (crave) it to get
through daily life.

Addiction can lead to tolerance. Tolerance means you need more and more
cocaine to get the same high feeling. If you try to stop using, you may have
reactions. These are called withdrawal symptoms and may include:

      * Strong cravings for the drug
      * Mood swings that can make a person feel depressed, then agitated or anxious
      * Feeling tired all day
      * Not able to concentrate
      * Physical reactions such as headaches, aches and pains, increased appetite, not sleeping well

## Treatment Options

Treatment begins with recognizing there is problem. Once you decide you want
to do something about your cocaine use, the next step is to get help and
support.

Treatment programs use behavior change techniques through counseling (talk
therapy). The aim is to help you understand your behaviors and why you use
cocaine. Involving family and friends during counseling can help support you
and keep you from going back to using (relapsing) the drug.

If you have severe withdrawal symptoms, you may need to stay at a live-in
treatment program. There, your health and safety can be monitored as you
recover.

At this time, there is no medicine that can help reduce the use of cocaine by
blocking its effects. But, scientists are researching such medicines.

## Your Ongoing Recovery

As you recover, focus on the following to help prevent relapse:

      * Keep going to your treatment sessions.
      * Find new activities and goals to replace the activities that involved your drug use.
      * Spend more time with family and friends you lost touch with while you were using. Consider not seeing friends who are still drug users.
      * Exercise and eat healthy foods. Taking care of your body helps it heal from the harmful effects of cocaine use. You will feel better, too.
      * Avoid triggers. These can be people you used cocaine with. Triggers can also be places, things, or emotions that can make you want to use cocaine again. 

## Resources

Resources that may help you on your road to recovery include:

      * The Partnership for Drug-free Kids -- drugfree.org
      * LifeRing -- lifering.org
      * SMART Recovery -- www.smartrecovery.org

Your workplace employee assistance program (EAP) is also a good resource.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call for an appointment with your health care provider if you or someone you
know is addicted to cocaine and needs help to stop using. Also call if you are
having withdrawal symptoms that concern you.

## Alternative Names

Substance abuse - cocaine; Drug abuse - cocaine; Drug use - cocaine

## References

Kowalchuk A, Reed BC. Substance use disorders. Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
Textbook of Family Medicine. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 50.

National Institute on Drug Abuse. Cocaine.
www.drugabuse.gov/publications/research-reports/cocaine/what-cocaine. Updated
May 2016. Accessed May 15, 2018.

Weiss RD. Drugs of abuse. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 34.

## Review Date 4/8/2018

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cocaine

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

