Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003119.htm    
                                Description: Morning sickness is nausea and vomiting that can occur at any time of the day during pregnancy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Morning sickness

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003119.htm

# Morning sickness

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Morning sickness is nausea and vomiting that can occur at any time of the day
during pregnancy.

## Considerations

Morning sickness is very common. Most pregnant women have at least some
nausea, and about a third have vomiting.

Morning sickness most often begins during the first month of pregnancy and
continues through the 14th to 16th week (3rd or 4th month). Some women have
nausea and vomiting through their entire pregnancy.

Morning sickness does not hurt the baby in any way unless you lose weight,
such as with severe vomiting. Mild weight loss during the first trimester is
not uncommon when women have moderate symptoms, and is not harmful to the
baby.

The amount of morning sickness during one pregnancy does not predict how you
will feel in future pregnancies.

## Causes

The exact cause of morning sickness is unknown. It may be caused by hormone
changes or lower blood sugar during early pregnancy. Emotional stress,
fatigue, traveling, or some foods can make the problem worse. Nausea in
pregnancy is more common and can be worse with twins or triplets.

## Home Care

Try to keep a positive attitude. Remember that in most cases morning sickness
stops after the first 3 or 4 months of pregnancy. To reduce nausea, try:

      * A few soda crackers or dry toast when you first wake up, even before you get out of bed in the morning.
      * A small snack at bedtime and when getting up to go to the bathroom at night.
      * Avoid large meals; instead, snack as often as every 1 to 2 hours during the day and drink plenty of fluids.
      * Eat foods high in protein and complex carbohydrates, such as peanut butter on apple slices or celery; nuts; cheese; crackers; milk; cottage cheese; and yogurt; avoid foods high in fat and salt, but low in nutrition.
      * Ginger products (proven effective against morning sickness) such as ginger tea, ginger candy, and ginger soda. 

Here are some more tips:

      * Acupressure wrist bands or acupuncture may help. You can find these bands in drug, health food, and travel and boating stores. If you are thinking about trying acupuncture, talk to your doctor and look for an acupuncturist who is trained to work with pregnant women.
      * Avoid smoking and secondhand smoke.
      * Avoid taking medications for morning sickness. If you do, ask a doctor first.
      * Keep air flowing through rooms to reduce odors.
      * When you feel nauseated, bland foods like gelatin, broth, ginger ale, and saltine crackers can soothe your stomach.
      * Take your prenatal vitamins at night. Increase vitamin B6 in your diet by eating whole grains, nuts, seeds, and peas and beans (legumes). Talk to your doctor about possibly taking vitamin B6 supplements. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

      * Morning sickness does not improve, despite trying home remedies.
      * Nausea and vomiting continue beyond your 4th month of pregnancy. This happens to some women. In most cases this is normal, but you should have it checked out.
      * You vomit blood or material that looks like coffee grounds. (Call immediately.)
      * You vomit more than 3 times per day or you cannot keep food or liquid down.
      * Your urine appears to be concentrated and dark.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will do a physical examination, including a pelvic exam, and
look for any signs of dehydration.

Your provider may ask the following questions:

      * Are you only nauseated or do you also vomit?
      * Does the nausea and vomiting occur every day?
      * Does it last throughout the day?
      * Can you keep down any food or fluid?
      * Have you been traveling?
      * Has your schedule changed?
      * Are you feeling stressed?
      * What foods have you been eating?
      * Do you smoke?
      * What have you done to try to feel better?
      * What other symptoms do you have -- headaches, abdominal pain, breast tenderness, dry mouth, excessive thirst, unintended weight loss?

Your provider may do the following tests:

      * Blood tests including CBC and blood chemistry (chem-20)
      * Urine tests
      * Ultrasound

## Alternative Names

Nausea in the morning - females; Vomiting in the morning - females; Nausea
during pregnancy; Pregnancy nausea; Pregnancy vomiting; Vomiting during
pregnancy

## Images

      * ![Morning sickness](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19673t.jpg)Morning sickness

## References

Antony KM, Racusin DA, Aagaard K, Dildy GA. Maternal physiology. In: Gabbe SG,
Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 3.

Herrell HE. Nausea and vomiting of pregnancy. _Am Fam Physician_.
2014;89(12):965-970. PMID: 25162163 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25162163.

Smith RP. Routine prenatal care: first trimester. In: Smith RP, ed. _Netter's
Obstetrics & Gynecology_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 198.

## Review Date 8/26/2017

Updated by: Peter J Chen, MD, FACOG, Associate Professor of OBGYN at Cooper
Medical School at Rowan University, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pregnancy2_thumb.jpg)Pregnancy
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

