Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003432.htm    
                                Description: A pregnancy test measures a hormone in the body called human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG). HCG is a hormone produced during pregnancy. It appears in the blood and urine of pregnant women as early as 10    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pregnancy test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003432.htm

# Pregnancy test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A pregnancy test measures a hormone in the body called human chorionic
gonadotropin (HCG). HCG is a hormone produced during pregnancy. It appears in
the blood and urine of pregnant women as early as 10 days after conception.

## How the Test is Performed

A pregnancy test is done using blood or urine. There are 2 types of blood
tests:

      * Qualitative, which measures _whether_ the HCG hormone is present
      * Quantitative, which measures _how much_ HCG is present

The blood test is done by drawing a single tube of blood and sending it to a
laboratory. You may wait anywhere from a few hours to more than a day to get
the results.

The urine HCG test is most often performed by placing a drop of urine on a
prepared chemical strip. It takes 1 to 2 minutes for a result.

For the urine test, you urinate into a cup.

For the blood test, the health care provider uses a needle and syringe to draw
blood from your vein into a tube. Any discomfort you might feel from the blood
draw will only last a few seconds.

## How the Test will Feel

For the urine test, you urinate into a cup.

For the blood test, the provider uses a needle and syringe to draw blood from
your vein into a tube. Any discomfort you might feel from the blood draw will
only last a few seconds.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to:

      * Determine if you are pregnant
      * Diagnose abnormal conditions that can raise HCG levels
      * Watch the development of the pregnancy during the first 2 months (quantitative test only) 

## Normal Results

HCG level rises rapidly during the first trimester of pregnancy and then
slightly declines.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

HCG level should almost double every 48 hours in the beginning of a pregnancy.
HCG level that does not rise appropriately may indicate a problem with your
pregnancy. Problems related to an abnormal rising HCG level include
miscarriage and ectopic (tubal) pregnancy.

An extremely high level of HCG may suggest a molar pregnancy or more than one
fetus, for example, twins.

Your provider will discuss the meaning of your HCG level with you.

## Considerations

Urine pregnancy tests will only be positive when you have enough HCG in your
blood. Most over-the-counter home pregnancy tests will not show that you are
pregnant until your expected menstrual cycle is late. Testing before this will
often give an inaccurate result. The HCG level is higher if your urine is more
concentrated. A good time to test is when you first get up in the morning.

If you think you are pregnant, repeat the pregnancy test at home or at your
provider's office.

## Images

      * ![Pregnancy test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9103t.jpg)Pregnancy test

## References

Jeelani R, Bluth MH. Reproductive function and pregnancy. In: McPherson RA,
Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory
Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 25.

Warner EA, Herold AH. Interpreting laboratory tests. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 14.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pregnancy2_thumb.jpg)Pregnancy
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

