Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000604.htm    
                                Description: &#10;The term &quot;morning sickness&quot; is used to describe nausea and vomiting during pregnancy. Some women also have the symptoms of dizziness and headaches.&#10;    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Morning sickness

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000604.htm

# Morning sickness

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The term "morning sickness" is used to describe nausea and vomiting during
pregnancy. Some women also have the symptoms of dizziness and headaches.

## More About Morning Sickness

Morning sickness often begins 4 to 6 weeks after conception. It may continue
until the 4th month of pregnancy. Some women have morning sickness during
their entire pregnancy. This happens most often for women who are carrying
more than one baby.

It is called morning sickness because the symptoms are more likely to occur
early in the day, but they can occur at any time. For some women, morning
sickness lasts all day.

The exact cause of morning sickness is not known.

      * Most experts think changes in the woman's hormone levels during pregnancy cause it.
      * Other factors that can make the nausea worse include a pregnant woman's enhanced sense of smell and gastric reflux. 

Morning sickness that is not severe does not hurt your baby in any way. In
fact:

      * It may even be a sign that all is well with you and your baby.
      * Morning sickness may be associated with a lower risk of miscarriage.
      * Your symptoms probably show that the placenta is making all the right hormones for your growing baby.

When nausea and vomiting are severe, a condition known as hyperemesis
gravidarum may be diagnosed.

## Eating and Drinking

Changing what you eat may help. Try these tips:

      * Eat a lot of protein and carbohydrates. Try peanut butter on apple slices or celery. Also try nuts, cheese and crackers, and low-fat dairy products like milk, cottage cheese, and yogurt.
      * Bland foods, such as gelatin, frozen desserts, broth, ginger ale, and saltine crackers, also soothe the stomach.
      * Avoid eating foods that are high in fat and salt.
      * Try to eat before you get hungry and before nausea occurs.
      * Eat a few soda crackers or dry toast when you get up at night to go to the bathroom or before you get out of bed in the morning.
      * Avoid large meals. Instead, have a snack as often as every 1 to 2 hours during the day. DO NOT let yourself get too hungry or too full.
      * Drink plenty of liquids.
      * Try to drink between meals rather than with meals so that your stomach does not get too full.
      * Seltzer, ginger ale, or other sparkling waters may help control symptoms. 

Foods that contain ginger may also help. Some of these are ginger tea and
ginger candy, along with ginger ale. Check to see that they have ginger in
them rather than just ginger flavoring.

## What Else Can I Try?

Try changing how you take your prenatal vitamins.

      * Take them at night, since the iron they contain may irritate your stomach. At night, you might be able to sleep through this. Also take them with a little food, not on an empty stomach.
      * You may have to try several different brands of prenatal vitamins before finding one you can tolerate.
      * You can also try cutting your prenatal vitamins in half. Take half in the morning and the other half at night. 

Some other tips are:

      * Keep your morning activities slow and calm.
      * Avoid poorly ventilated spaces that trap food odors or other smells.
      * DO NOT smoke cigarettes or be in areas where people are smoking.
      * Get extra sleep and try to lessen stress as much as possible. 

Try acupressure wristbands that apply pressure to specific points on your
wrist. Often these are used to ease motion sickness. You can find them at drug
stores, health food stores, travel stores, and online.

Try acupuncture. Some acupuncturists are trained to work with pregnant women.
Talk to your health care provider beforehand.

## Are There Any Drugs To Treat Morning Sickness?

Vitamin B6 (100 mg or less daily) has been shown to ease symptoms of morning
sickness. Many providers recommend trying it first before trying other
medicines.

Diclegis, a combination of doxylamine succinate and pyridoxine hydrochloride
(Vitamin B6), has been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
for treating morning sickness.

Do not take any medicines for morning sickness without talking with your
provider first. Your provider may not advise medicines to prevent nausea
unless your vomiting is severe and will not stop.

In severe cases, you may be admitted to the hospital, where you will receive
fluids through an IV (into your vein). Your provider might prescribe other
medicines if your morning sickness is severe.

## When to Call the Doctor

      * Your morning sickness does not improve after trying home remedies.
      * You are vomiting blood or something that looks like coffee grounds.
      * You lose more than 2 pounds (1 kilogram) in a week.
      * You have severe vomiting that will not stop. This can cause dehydration (not having enough fluid in your body) and malnutrition (not having enough nutrients in your body). 

## Alternative Names

Pregnancy - morning sickness; Prenatal care - morning sickness

## References

Matthews A, Haas DM, O'MathÃºna DP, Dowswell T. Interventions for nausea and
vomiting in early pregnancy. _Cochrane Database Syst Rev_. 2015;(9):CD007575.
PMID: 26348534 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26348534.

West EH, Hark L, Catalano PM. Nutrition during pregnancy. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl
JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 7.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Pregnancy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

