Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000583.htm    
                                Description: Growing a baby is hard work. Your body will go through a lot of changes as your baby grows and your hormones change. Along with the aches and pains of pregnancy, you will feel other new or changing symptoms.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Common symptoms during pregnancy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000583.htm

# Common symptoms during pregnancy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Growing a baby is hard work. Your body will go through a lot of changes as
your baby grows and your hormones change. Along with the aches and pains of
pregnancy, you will feel other new or changing symptoms.

Even so, many pregnant women say that they feel healthier than ever.

## Fatigue

Being tired is common during pregnancy. Most women feel tired the first few
months, then again toward the end. Exercise, rest, and a proper diet can make
you feel less tired. It may also help to take rest breaks or naps every day.

## Problems With Urination

Early on in the pregnancy, you will likely be making more trips to the
bathroom.

      * As your uterus grows and rises higher in your abdomen (belly), the need to urinate often may lessen.
      * Even so, you will continue to urinate more throughout pregnancy. That means that you also need to drink more water, and may be thirstier than before you were pregnant.
      * As you get closer to delivery and your baby descends into your pelvis, you will need to pee much more, and the amount of urine passed at one time will be less (the bladder holds less due to pressure from the baby). 

If you have pain when you urinate or a change in urine odor or color, call
your health care provider. These could be signs of a bladder infection.

Some pregnant women also leak urine when they cough or sneeze. For most women,
this goes away after the baby is born. If this happens to you, start doing
Kegel exercises to strengthen the muscles of your pelvic floor.

## Vaginal Discharge

You may see more vaginal discharge while pregnant. Call your provider if the
discharge:

      * Has a foul odor
      * Has a greenish color
      * Makes you feel itchy
      * Causes pain or soreness

## Constipation

Having a hard time moving the bowels is normal during pregnancy. This is
because:

      * Hormone changes during pregnancy slow down your digestive system.
      * Later in your pregnancy, the pressure from your uterus on your rectum may also worsen the problem.

You can ease constipation by:

      * Eating raw fruits and vegetables, such as prunes, to get extra fiber.
      * Eating whole grain or bran cereals for more fiber.
      * Using a fiber supplement regularly.
      * Drinking plenty of water (8 to 9 cups daily).

Ask your provider about trying a stool softener. Also ask before using
laxatives during pregnancy.

## Heartburn

While you are pregnant, food stays in your stomach and bowels longer. This may
cause heartburn (stomach acid moving back up into the esophagus). You can
reduce heartburn by:

      * Eating small meals
      * Avoiding spicy and greasy foods
      * Not drinking large amounts of liquid before bedtime
      * Not exercising for at least 2 hours after you eat
      * Not lying down flat right after a meal

If you continue to have heartburn, talk to your provider about medicines that
can help.

## Nosebleeds and Bleeding Gums

Some women have nose and gum bleeding while they are pregnant. This is because
the tissues in their nose and gums get dry, and the blood vessels dilate and
are closer to the surface. You can avoid or reduce this bleeding by:

      * Drinking lots of fluids
      * Getting lots of vitamin C, from orange juice or other fruits and juices
      * Using a humidifier (a device that puts water in the air) to decrease dryness of the nose or sinuses
      * Brushing your teeth with a soft toothbrush to decrease bleeding gums
      * Maintaining good dental hygiene and using floss every day to keep your gums healthy 

## Swelling, Varicose Veins, and Hemorrhoids

Swelling in your legs is common. You may see more swelling as you get closer
to giving birth. The swelling is caused by your uterus pressing on the veins.

      * You may also notice that the veins in your lower body are becoming larger.
      * In the legs, these are called varicose veins.
      * You may also have veins close to your vulva and vagina that swell.
      * In your rectum, veins that swell are called hemorrhoids.

To reduce swelling:

      * Raise your legs and rest your feet on a surface higher than your belly.
      * Lie on your side in bed. Lying on the left side is better if you can do it comfortably. It also provides better circulation for the baby.
      * Wear support pantyhose or compression stockings.
      * Limit salty foods. Salt works like a sponge and makes your body hold more water.
      * Try not to strain during bowel movements. This can worsen hemorrhoids.

Leg swelling that occurs with headaches or high blood pressure can be a sign
of a serious medical complication of pregnancy called preeclampsia. It is
important to discuss leg swelling with your provider.

## Breathing Problems

Some women feel short of breath at times while they are pregnant. You may
notice that you're breathing more rapidly than usual. It happens more often in
the early part of the pregnancy due to the changes in your hormones. It may
also happen again toward the end of your pregnancy because of pressure from
the baby. Mild shortness of breath from exercise that quickly gets better is
not serious.

Severe chest pain or shortness of breath that does not go away can be a sign
of a serious medical complication. Call 911 or go to an emergency room right
away if you have these symptoms.

You may get short of breath again in the later weeks of pregnancy. This is
because the uterus takes up so much room that your lungs do not have as much
space to expand.

Doing these things might help with shortness of breath:

      * Sitting up straight
      * Sleeping propped up on a pillow
      * Resting when you feel short of breath
      * Moving at a slower pace

If you suddenly have a hard time breathing that is unusual for you, see your
provider right away or go to the emergency room.

## Alternative Names

Prenatal care - common symptoms

## References

Cline M, Young N. Antepartum care. In: Kellerman RD, Bope ET, eds. _Conn's
Current Therapy 2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:1123-1129.

Gregory KD, Ramos DE, Jauniaux ERM. Preconception and prenatal care. In: Gabbe
SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 6.

West EH, Hark L, Catalano PM. Nutrition during pregnancy. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl
JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 7.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Pregnancy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

