Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002220.htm    
                                Description: Amniotic fluid is a clear, slightly yellowish liquid that surrounds the unborn baby (fetus) during pregnancy. ItÂ is contained in the amniotic sac.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Amniotic fluid

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002220.htm

# Amniotic fluid

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Amniotic fluid is a clear, slightly yellowish liquid that surrounds the unborn
baby (fetus) during pregnancy. ItÂ is contained in the amniotic sac.

## Information

While in the womb, the baby floats in the amniotic fluid. The amount of
amniotic fluid is greatest at about 34 weeks (gestation) into the pregnancy,
when it averages 800 mL. About 600 mL of amniotic fluid surrounds the baby at
full term (40 weeks gestation).

The amniotic fluid constantly moves (circulates) as the baby swallows and
"inhales" the fluid, and then releases it.

The amniotic fluid helps:

      * The developing baby to move in the womb, which allows for proper bone growth
      * The lungs to develop properly
      * Prevents pressure on the umbilical cord  

      * Keep a constant temperature around the baby, protecting from heat loss
      * Protect the baby from outside injury by cushioning sudden blows or movements 

Too much amniotic fluid is called polyhydramnios. This condition can occur
with multiple pregnancies (twins or triplets), congenital anomalies (problems
that exist when the baby is born), or gestational diabetes.

Too little amniotic fluid is known as oligohydramnios. This condition may
occur with late pregnancies, ruptured membranes, placental dysfunction, or
fetal abnormalities.

Abnormal amounts of amniotic fluid may cause the health care provider to watch
the pregnancy more carefully. Removing a sample of the fluid through
amniocentesis can provide information about the sex, health, and development
of the fetus.

## Images

      * ![Amniocentesis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1062t.jpg)Amniocentesis
      * ![Amniotic fluid](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17008t.jpg)Amniotic fluid
      * ![Polyhydramnios](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17123t.jpg)Polyhydramnios
      * ![Amniotic fluid](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9058t.jpg)Amniotic fluid

## References

Burton GJ, Sibley CP, Jauniaux ERM. Placental anatomy and physiology. In:
Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 1.

Gilbert WM. Amniotic fluid disorders. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et
al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 35.

Ross MG, Beall MH. Amniotic fluid dynamics. In: Resnick R, Lockwood CJ, Moore
TR, Greene MF, et al, eds. _Creasy and Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine:
Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 4.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pregnancy2_thumb.jpg)Pregnancy
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

