Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000246.htm    
                                Description: Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a disorder that leads to pain in abdomen and bowel changes.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Irritable bowel syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000246.htm

# Irritable bowel syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a disorder that leads to pain in abdomen and
bowel changes.

IBS is not the same as inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).

## Causes

The reasons why IBS develops are not clear. It can occur after a bacterial
infection or a parasitic infection (giardiasis) of the intestines. This is
called postinfectious IBS. There may also be other triggers, including stress.

The intestine is connected to the brain using hormone and nerve signals that
go back and forth between the bowel and the brain. These signals affect bowel
function and symptoms. The nerves can become more active during stress. This
can cause the intestines to be more sensitive and contract more.

IBS can occur at any age. Often, it begins in the teen years or early
adulthood. It is twice as common in women as in men.

Â It is less likely to begin in older people above 50 years of age.

AboutÂ 10% to 15% of people in the United States have symptoms of IBS. It is
the most common intestinal problem that causes people to be referred to a
bowel specialist (gastroenterologist).

## Symptoms

IBS symptoms vary from person to person, and range from mild to severe. Most
people have mild symptoms. You are said to have IBS when symptoms are present
for at least 3 days a month for a period of 3 months or more.

The main symptoms include:

      * Abdominal pain
      * Gas
      * Fullness
      * Bloating
      * Change in bowel habits. CanÂ have either diarrhea (IBS-D), or constipation (IBS-C).

Pain and other symptoms will often be reduced or go away after a bowel
movement. Symptoms may flare up when there is a change in the frequency of
your bowel movements.

People with IBS may go back and forth between having constipation and diarrhea
or have or mostly have one or the other.

      * If you have IBS with diarrhea, you will have frequent, loose, watery stools. You may have an urgent need to have a bowel movement, which may be hard to control.
      * If you have IBS with constipation, you will have a hard time passing stool, as well as fewer bowel movements. You may need to strain with a bowel movement and have cramps. Often, only a small amount or no stool at all will pass.

The symptoms may get worse for a few weeks or a month, and then decrease for a
while. In other cases, symptoms are present most of the time.

You may also lose your appetite if you have IBS. However, blood in stools and
unintentional weight loss are not a part of IBS.

## Exams and Tests

There is no test to diagnose IBS. Most of the time, your health care provider
can diagnose IBS based on your symptoms. Eating a lactose-free diet for 2
weeks may help the provider identify lactase deficiency (or lactose
intolerance).

The following tests may be done to rule out other problems:

      * Blood tests to see if you have celiac disease or a low blood count (anemia)
      * Stool exam for occult blood
      * Stool cultures to check for an infection
      * Microscopic exam of a stool sample for parasites
      * Stool exam for a substance called fecal calprotectin

Your provider may recommend a colonoscopy. During this test, a flexible tube
is inserted through the anus to examine the colon. You may need this test if:

      * Symptoms began later in life (over age 50)
      * You have symptoms such as weight loss or bloody stools
      * You have abnormal blood tests (such as a low blood count) 

Other disorders that can cause similar symptoms include:

      * Celiac disease
      * Colon cancer (cancer rarely causes typical IBS symptoms, unless symptoms such as weight loss, blood in the stools, or abnormal blood tests are also present)
      * Crohn disease or ulcerative colitis

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to relieve symptoms.

In some cases of IBS, lifestyle changes can help. For example, regular
exercise and improved sleep habits may reduce anxiety and help relieve bowel
symptoms.

Dietary changes can be helpful. However, no specific diet can be recommended
for IBS because the condition differs from one person to another.

The following changes may help:

      * Avoiding foods and drinks that stimulate the intestines (such as caffeine, tea, or colas)
      * Eating smaller meals
      * Increasing fiber in the diet (this may improve constipation or diarrhea, but make bloating worse) 

Talk with your provider before taking over-the-counter medicines.

No one medicine works for everyone. Some that your provider may suggest
include:

      * Anticholinergic medicines (dicyclomine, propantheline, belladonna, and hyoscyamine) taken about a half-hour before eating to control intestinal muscle spasms
      * Loperamide to treat IBS-D
      * Alosetron (Lotronex) for IBS-D
      * Eluxadoline (Viberzi) for IBS-D
      * Probiotics
      * Low doses of tricyclic antidepressants to help relieve intestinal pain
      * Lubiprostone (amitiza) for IBS-C
      * Bisacodyl to treat IBS-C
      * Rifaximin, an antibiotic
      * Linaclotide (Linzess) for IBS-C

Psychological therapy or medicines for anxiety or depression may help with the
problem.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

IBS may be a life-long condition. For some people, symptoms are disabling and
interfere with work, travel, and social activities.

Symptoms often get better with treatment.

IBS does not cause permanent harm to the intestines. Also, it does not lead to
a serious disease, such as cancer.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of IBS or if you notice changes in
your bowel habits that do not go away.

## Alternative Names

IBS; Irritable bowel; Spastic colon; Irritable colon; Mucous colitis; Spastic
colitis; Abdominal pain - IBS; Diarrhea - IBS; Constipation â IBS; IBS-C;
IBS-D

## Patient Instructions

      * Constipation - what to ask your doctor

## Images

      * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system

## References

Aronson JK. Laxatives. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of Drugs_.
16th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:488-494.

Canavan C, West J, Card T. The epidemiology of irritable bowel syndrome. _Clin
Epidemiol_. 2014;6:71-80. PMID: 24523597 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24523597.

Ferri FF. Irritable bowel syndrome. In: Ferri FF, ed. _Ferri's Clinical
Advisor 2019_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:798-801.

Ford AC, Talley NJ. Irritable bowel syndrome. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 122.

Mayer EA. Functional gastrointestinal disorders: irritable bowel syndrome,
dyspepsia, chest pain of presumed esophageal origin, and heartburn. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 137.

Wolfe MM. Common clinical manifestations of gastrointestinal disease. In:
Benjamin IJ, Griggs RC, Wing EJ, Fitz JG, eds. _Andreoli and Carpenter's Cecil
Essentials of Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 33.

## Review Date 3/25/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![SÃ­ndrome del intestino
irritable](https://medlineplus.gov/images/IrritableBowelSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Irritable
Bowel Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

