Link: https://medlineplus.gov/campylobacterinfections.html    
                                Description: If you have diarrhea, bloating, and vomiting, you may have a campylobacter infection. How do you get it? How can you treat it? Learn more.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Campylobacter Infections

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/campylobacterinfections.html

#  Campylobacter Infections

## Summary

Campylobacter infection is a common foodborne illness. You usually get it from
eating contaminated food, especially raw or undercooked poultry. You can also
get it from drinking contaminated water or raw milk, or handling infected
animal feces (poop).

Some infected people don't have any symptoms. If you do have symptoms, they
start two to five days after you are infected. They usually last about one
week, and can include

    * Diarrhea (which could be bloody)
    * Cramping
    * Abdominal pain
    * Fever 
    * Fatigue
    * Nausea and vomiting

Health care providers use stool tests to make a diagnosis. Most people get
better without treatment. You should drink extra fluids for as long as the
diarrhea lasts. People who have a severe infection or a weakened immune system
may need to take antibiotics. In rare cases, the infection can cause reactive
arthritis or Guillain-Barre syndrome.

To prevent Campylobacter infection, cook poultry thoroughly. Use a separate
cutting board and utensils for meats. Make sure to clean them carefully with
soap and hot water after you use them.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Learn More

    * Bacteria Culture Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Campylobacter (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Campylobacter Infections (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Campylobacter Infections (American Academy of Pediatrics)
    * Campylobacter Questions and Answers (Department of Agriculture, Food Safety and Inspection Service) Also in Spanish
    * Chicken from Farm to Table (Department of Agriculture, Food Safety and Inspection Service)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Campylobacter Infections ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Incidence and analysis of campylobacteriosis cases in the Czech Republic in...
    * Article: A Bayesian Monte Carlo approach for predicting the spread of infectious...
    * Article: Magnitude of Rotavirus A and Campylobacter jejuni infections in children with...
    * Campylobacter Infections -- see more articles

## Patient Handouts

    * Campylobacter infection (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Campylobacter serology test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Campylobacter
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CampylobacterInfections.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Campylobacter Infections is the
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 28 June 2018 Topic last reviewed: 25 March 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

