Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002467.htm    
                                Description: Proteins are the building blocks of life. Every cell in the human body contains protein. The basic structure of protein is a chain of amino acids.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Protein in diet

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002467.htm

# Protein in diet

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Proteins are the building blocks of life. Every cell in the human body
contains protein. The basic structure of protein is a chain of amino acids.

You need protein in your diet to help your body repair cells and make new
ones. Protein is also important for growth and development in children, teens,
and pregnant women.

## Food Sources

Protein foods are broken down into parts called amino acids during digestion.
The human body needs a number of amino acids in large enough amounts to
maintain good health.

Amino acids are found in animal sources such as meats, milk, fish, and eggs.
They are also found in plant sources such as soy, beans, legumes, nut butters,
and some grains (such as wheat germ and quinoa). You do not need to eat animal
products to get all the protein you need in your diet.

Amino acids are classified into three groups:

      * Essential
      * Nonessential
      * Conditional 

**Essential amino acids** cannot be made by the body, and must be supplied by
food. They do not need to be eaten at one meal. The balance over the whole day
is more important.

 **Nonessential amino acids** are made by the body from essential amino acids
or in the normal breakdown of proteins.

 **Conditional amino acids** are needed in times of illness and stress.

## Recommendations

The amount of protein you need in your diet will depend on your overall
calorie needs. The daily recommended intake of protein for healthy adults is
10% to 35% of your total calorie needs. For example, a person on a 2000
calorie diet could eat 100 grams of protein, which would supply 20% of their
total daily calories.

One ounce (30 grams) of most protein-rich foods contains 7 grams of protein.
An ounce (30 grams) equals:

      * 1 oz (30 g) of meat fish or poultry
      * 1 large egg
      * Â¼ cup (60 milliliters) tofu
      * Â½ cup (65 grams) cooked beans or lentils

Low fat dairy is also a good source of protein.

Whole grains contain more protein than refined or "white" products.

Children and teens may need different amounts, depending on their age. Some
healthy sources of animal protein include:

      * Turkey or chicken with the skin removed, or bison (also called buffalo meat)
      * Lean cuts of beef or pork, such as round, top sirloin, or tenderloin (trim away any visible fat)
      * Fish or shellfish 

Other good sources of protein include:

      * Pinto beans, black beans, kidney beans, lentils, split peas, or garbanzo beans
      * Nuts and seeds, including almonds, hazelnuts, mixed nuts, peanuts, peanut butter, sunflower seeds, or walnuts (Nuts are high in fat so be mindful of portion sizes. Eating calories in excess of your needs may lead to weight gain.)
      * Tofu, tempeh, and other soy protein products
      * Low-fat dairy products 

The US Department of Agriculture's newest food guide, called MyPlate, can help
you make healthy eating choices.

## Alternative Names

Diet - protein

## Images

      * ![Proteins](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19823t.jpg)Proteins

## References

National Academy of Sciences, Institute of Medicine, Food and Nutrition Board.
Dietary Reference Intakes for Energy, Carbohydrate, Fiber, Fat, Fatty Acids,
Cholesterol, Protein, and Amino Acids. National Academy Press. Washington, DC,
2005.Â
www.nal.usda.gov/sites/default/files/fnic_uploads/energy_full_report.pdf.

Ramu A, Neild P. Diet and nutrition. In: Naish J, Syndercombe Court D, eds.Â
_Medical Sciences_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 16.

US Department of Health and Human Services and US Department of Agriculture.
2015-2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans. 8th ed.
health.gov/dietaryguidelines/2015/resources/2015-2020_Dietary_Guidelines.pdf.
Updated December 2015. Accessed June 21, 2019.

## Review Date 4/30/2019

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CDN, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Dietary
Proteins](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DietaryProtein_thumb.jpg)Dietary
Proteins _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

