Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000758.htm    
                                Description: Multiple system atrophy - cerebellar subtype (MSA-C) is a rare disease that causes areas deep in the brain, just above the spinal cord, to shrink (atrophy). MSA-C used to be known as olivopontocerebellar    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Multiple system atrophy - cerebellar subtype

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000758.htm

# Multiple system atrophy - cerebellar subtype

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Multiple system atrophy - cerebellar subtype (MSA-C) is a rare disease that
causes areas deep in the brain, just above the spinal cord, to shrink
(atrophy). MSA-C used to be known as olivopontocerebellar atrophy (OPCA).

## Causes

MSA-C can be passed down through families (inherited form). It can also affect
people without a known family history (sporadic form).

Researchers have identified certain genes that are involved in the inherited
form of this condition.

The cause of MSA-C in people with the sporadic form is not known. The disease
slowly gets worse (is progressive).

MSA-C is slightly more common in men than in women. The average age of onset
is 54 years old.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of MSA-CÂ tend to start at a younger age in people with the inherited
form. The main symptom is clumsiness (ataxia) that slowly gets worse. There
may also be problems with balance, slurring of speech, and difficulty walking.

Other symptoms may include:

      * Abnormal eye movements
      * Abnormal movements
      * Bowel or bladder problems
      * Difficulty swallowing
      * Cold hands and feet
      * Lightheadedness when standing
      * Headache while standing that is relieved by lying down  

      * Muscle stiffness or rigidity, spasms, tremor
      * Nerve damage (neuropathy)
      * Problems in speaking and sleeping due to spasms of the vocal cords
      * Sexual function problems 
      * Abnormal sweating

## Exams and Tests

A thorough medical and nervous system examination, as well as a symptom and
family history are needed to make the diagnosis.

There are genetic tests to look for the causes of some forms of the disorder.
But, no specific test is available in many cases. An MRI of the brain may show
changes in the size of affected brain structures, especially as the disease
gets worse. But it is possible to have the disorder and have a normal MRI.

Other tests such as positron emission tomography (PET) may be done to rule out
other conditions. These may include swallowing studies to see if a person can
safely swallow food and liquid.

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment or cure for OPCA. The aim is to treat the
symptoms and prevent complications. This may include:

      * Tremor medicines, such as those for Parkinson disease
      * Speech, occupational and physical therapy
      * Ways to prevent choking
      * Walking aids to help with balance and prevent falls

## Support Groups

The following groups can provide more information on MSA-C:

      * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke -- www.ninds.nih.gov/Disorders/All-Disorders/Multiple-System-Atrophy-Information-Page
      * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- www.rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/multiple-system-atrophy

## Outlook (Prognosis)

MSA-C slowly gets worse, and there is no cure. The outlook is generally poor.
But, it may be years before someone is very disabled.

## Possible Complications

Complications of MSA-C include:

      * Choking
      * Infection from inhaling food into the lungs (aspiration pneumonia)
      * Injury from falls
      * Nutrition problems due to difficulty swallowing

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have any symptoms of MSA-C. You will
need to be seen by a neurologist. This is a doctor who treats nervous system
problems.

## Alternative Names

MSA-C; Cerebellar multiple system atrophy; Olivopontocerebellar atrophy; OPCA;
Olivopontocerebellar degeneration

## Images

      * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Ciolli L, Krismer F, Nicoletti F, Wenning GK.Â An update on the cerebellar
subtype of multiple system atrophy. _Cerebellum Ataxias_. 2014;1-14. PMID:
26331038Â www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26331038.

Jancovic J. Parkinson disease and other movement disorders. In: Daroff RB,
Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical
Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 96.

Ma MJ. Biopsy pathology of neurodegenerative disorders in adults. In: Perry A,
Brat DJ, eds. _Practical Surgical Neuropathology: A Diagnostic Approach_. 2nd
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier, 2018:chap 27.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cerebellar
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CerebellarDisorders_thumb.jpg)Cerebellar
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

