Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001397.htm    
                                Description: Acute cerebellar ataxia is sudden, uncoordinated muscle movement due to disease or injury to the cerebellum. This is the area in the brain that controls muscle movement.Â Ataxia means loss of muscle coordination,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Acute cerebellar ataxia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001397.htm

# Acute cerebellar ataxia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Acute cerebellar ataxia is sudden, uncoordinated muscle movement due to
disease or injury to the cerebellum. This is the area in the brain that
controls muscle movement.Â Ataxia means loss of muscle coordination,
especially of the hands and legs.

## Causes

Acute cerebellar ataxia in children, particularly younger than age 3, may
occur several days or weeks after an illness caused by a virus.

Viral infections that may cause this include chickenpox, Coxsackie disease,
Epstein-Barr, echovirus, among others.

Other causes of acute cerebellar ataxia include:

      * Abscess of the cerebellum
      * Alcohol, medicines, and insecticides,Â and illicit drugs
      * Bleeding into the cerebellum
      * Multiple sclerosis
      * Strokes of the cerebellum
      * Vaccination 
      * Trauma to head and neck
      * Certain diseases associated with some cancers (paraneoplastic disorders)

## Symptoms

Ataxia may affect movement of the middle part of the body from the neck to the
hip area (the trunk) or the arms and legs (limbs).

When the person is sitting, the body may move side-to-side, back-to-front, or
both. Then the body quickly moves back to an upright position.

When a person with ataxia of the arms reaches for an object, the hand may sway
back and forth.

Common symptoms of ataxia include:

      * Clumsy speech pattern (dysarthria)
      * Repetitive eye movements (nystagmus)
      * Uncoordinated eye movements
      * Walking problems (unsteady gait) that can lead to falls

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will ask if the person has recently been sick and
will try to rule out any other causes of the problem. Brain and nervous system
examination will be done to identify the areas of the nervous system that are
most affected.

The following tests may be ordered:

      * CT scan of the head
      * MRI scan of the head
      * Spinal tap
      * Blood tests to detect infections caused by viruses or bacteria

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause:

      * If the acute cerebellar ataxia is due to bleeding, surgery may be needed.
      * For a stroke, medicine to thin the blood can be given.
      * Infections may need to be treated with antibiotics or antivirals.
      * Corticosteroids may be needed for swelling (inflammation) of the cerebellum (such as from multiple sclerosis).
      * Cerebellar ataxia caused by a recent viral infection may not need treatment.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People whose condition was caused by a recent viral infection should make a
full recovery without treatment in a few months. Strokes, bleeding, or
infections may cause permanent symptoms.

## Possible Complications

In rare cases, movement or behavioral disorders may persist.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if any symptoms of ataxia appear.

## Alternative Names

Cerebellar ataxia; Ataxia - acute cerebellar; Cerebellitis; Post-varicella
acute cerebellar ataxia; PVACA

## References

Mink JW. Movement disorders. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 597.

Subramony SH, Xia G. Disorders of the cerebellum, including the degenerative
ataxias. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's
Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
97.

## Review Date 3/12/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Cerebellar
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CerebellarDisorders_thumb.jpg)Cerebellar
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

