Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000591.htm    
                                Description: You have a vascular access for hemodialysis. Taking good care of your access helps make it last longer.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Taking care of your vascular access for hemodialysis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000591.htm

# Taking care of your vascular access for hemodialysis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You have a vascular access for hemodialysis. Taking good care of your access
helps make it last longer.

Follow your health care provider's instructions on how to care for your access
at home. Use the information below as a reminder.

## What Is a Vascular Access?

A vascular access is an opening made in your skin and blood vessel during a
short operation. When you have dialysis, your blood flows out of the access
into the hemodialysis machine. After your blood is filtered in the machine, it
flows back through the access into your body.

## Know What Type of Vascular Access You Have

There are 3 main types of vascular accesses for hemodialysis. These are
described as follows.

Fistula: An artery in your forearm or upper arm is sewn to a vein nearby.

      * This allows needles to be inserted into the vein for dialysis treatment.
      * A fistula takes from 4 to 6 weeks to heal and mature before it is ready to use.

Graft: An artery and a vein in your arm are joined by a U-shaped plastic tube
under the skin.

      * Needles are inserted into the graft when you have a dialysis.
      * A graft can be ready to use in 2 to 4 weeks.

Central venous catheter: A soft plastic tube (catheter) is tunneled under your
skin and placed in a vein in your neck, chest, or groin. From there, the
tubing goes into a central vein that leads to your heart.

      * A central venous catheter is ready to use right away.
      * It is usually used only for a few weeks or months.

## When You First Leave the Hospital

You may have a little redness or swelling around your access site for the
first few days. If you have a fistula or graft:

      * Prop your arm on pillows and keep your elbow straight to reduce swelling.
      * You can use your arm after you get home from surgery. But, DO NOT lift more than 10 pounds (lb) or 4.5 kilograms (kg),Â which isÂ about theÂ weightÂ of a gallon of milk. 

Taking care of the dressing (bandage):

      * If you have a graft or fistula, keep the dressing dry for the first 2 days. You can bathe or shower as usual after the dressing is removed.
      * If you have a central venous catheter, you must keep the dressing dry at all times. Cover it with plastic when you shower. DO NOT take baths, go swimming, or soak in a hot tub. DO NOT let anyone draw blood from your catheter. 

## Problems to Watch For

Grafts and catheters are more likely than fistulas to become infected. Signs
of infection are redness, swelling, soreness, pain, warmth, pus around the
site, and fever.

Blood clots may form and block the flow of blood through the access site.
Grafts and catheters are more likely than fistulas to clot.

The blood vessels in your graft or fistula can become narrow and slow down the
flow of blood through the access. This is called stenosis.

## Day-to-day Care of Your Vascular Access

Following these guidelines will help you avoid infection, blood clots, and
other problems with your vascular access.

      * Always wash your hands with soap and warm water before and after touching your access. Clean the area around the access with antibacterial soap or rubbing alcohol before your dialysis treatments.
      * Check the pulse (also called thrill) in your access every day. Your provider will show you how.
      * Change where the needle goes into your fistula or graft for each dialysis treatment.
      * DO NOT let anyone take your blood pressure, start an IV (intravenous line), or draw blood from your access arm.
      * DO NOT let anyone draw blood from your tunneled central venous catheter.
      * DO NOT sleep on your access arm.
      * DO NOT carry more than 10 lb (4.5 kg) with your access arm.
      * DO NOT wear a watch, jewelry, or tight clothes over your access site.
      * Be careful not to bump or cut your access.
      * Use your access only for dialysis.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider right away if you notice any of these problems:

      * Bleeding from your vascular access site
      * Signs of infection, such as redness, swelling, soreness, pain, warmth, or pus around the site
      * A fever 100.3Â°F (38.0Â°C) or higher
      * The pulse (thrill) in your graft or fistula slows down or you do not feel it at all
      * The arm where your catheter is placed swells and the hand on that side feels cold
      * Your hand gets cold, numb or weak 

## Alternative Names

Arteriovenous fistula; A-V fistula; A-V graft; Tunneled catheter

## References

Kern WV. Infections associated with intravascular lines and grafts. In: Cohen
J, Powderly WG, Opal SM, eds. _Infectious Diseases_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 48.

National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases website.
Hemodialysis. www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/kidney-disease/kidney-
failure/hemodialysis. Updated January 2018. Accessed October 25, 2018.

Yeun JY, Ornt DB, Depner TA. Hemodialysis. In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden
PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 65.

## Review Date 10/15/2018

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, Nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Dialysis

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

