Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000705.htm    
                                Description: An access is needed for you to get hemodialysis. Using the access, blood is removed from your body, cleaned by a dialyzer, then returned to your body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hemodialysis access - self care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000705.htm

# Hemodialysis access - self care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An access is needed for you to get hemodialysis. Using the access, blood is
removed from your body, cleaned by a dialyzer, then returned to your body.

Usually the access is put in a person's arm. But it can also go in your leg.
It takes a few weeks to a few months to get an access ready for hemodialysis.

Taking good care of your access helps make it last longer.

## Prevent Infection in Your Access

Keep your access clean. Wash the access with soap and water every day to
decrease your risk of infection.

Do not scratch your access. If you scratch open your skin at the access, you
could get an infection.

To prevent infection:

      * Avoid bumping or cutting your access.
      * Do not lift anything heavy with the arm with the access.
      * Use your access for hemodialysis only.
      * Do not let anyone take your blood pressure, draw blood, or start an IV in the arm with the access. 

## Keep Blood Flowing Through Your Access

To keep blood flowing through the access:

      * Do not sleep or lie on the arm with the access.
      * Do not wear clothes that are tight around the arms or wrists.
      * Do not wear jewelry that is tight around the arms or wrists. 

## Checking Your Access

Check the pulse in your access arm. You should feel blood rushing through that
feels like a vibration. This vibration is called a "thrill."

Have the nurse or technician check your access before every dialysis.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your health care provider if:

      * You have any signs of infection, including redness, pain, pus, drainage, or you have a fever over 101Â°F (38.3Â°C).
      * You do not feel a thrill at your access. 

## Alternative Names

Kidney failure - chronic-hemodialysis access; Renal failure - chronic-
hemodialysis access; Chronic renal insufficiency - hemodialysis access;
Chronic kidney failure - hemodialysis access; Chronic renal failure -
hemodialysis access; Dialysis - hemodialysis access

## References

National Kidney Foundation website. Hemodialysis access.
www.kidney.org/atoz/content/hemoaccess. Updated 2015. Accessed September 4,
2019.

Yeun JY, Young B, Depner TA, Chin AA. Hemodialysis. In: Yu ASL, Chertow GM,
Luyckx VA, Marsden PA, Skorecki K, Taal MW, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The
Kidney_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 63.

## Review Date 7/16/2019

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, Nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Dialysis

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

