Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000706.htm    
                                Description: If you need dialysis for kidney disease, you have a few options for how to receive treatment. Many people have dialysis in a treatment center. This article focuses on hemodialysis at a treatment center.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dialysis centers - what to expect

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000706.htm

# Dialysis centers - what to expect

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If you need dialysis for kidney disease, you have a few options for how to
receive treatment. Many people have dialysis in a treatment center. This
article focuses on hemodialysis at a treatment center.

## What to Expect

You may have treatment in a hospital or in a separate dialysis center.

      * You will have about 3 treatments a week.
      * Treatment takes about 3 to 4 hours each time.
      * You have to make appointments for your treatments. 

It is important not to miss or skip any dialysis sessions. Be sure you arrive
on time. Many centers have busy schedules. So you may not be able to make up
the time if you are late.

During dialysis, your blood will flow through a special filter that removes
waste and excess fluid. The filter is sometimes called an artificial kidney.

Once you arrive at the center, trained health care providers will take charge
of you.

      * Your access area will be washed, and you will be weighed. Then you will be taken to a comfortable chair where you'll sit during treatment.
      * Your provider will check your blood pressure, temperature, breathing, heart rate, and pulse.
      * Needles will be placed in your access area to allow blood to flow in and out. This may be uncomfortable at first. If needed, your provider can apply a cream to numb the area.
      * The needles are attached to a tube that connects to the dialysis machine. Your blood will flow through the tube, into the filter, and back into your body.
      * The same site is used every time, and over time, a small tunnel will form in the skin. This is called a buttonhole, and it is like the hole that forms in a pierced ear. Once this forms, you will not notice the needles as much.
      * Your session will last 3 to 4 hours. During this time your provider will monitor your blood pressure and the dialysis machine.
      * During treatment, you can read, use a laptop, nap, watch TV, or chat with providers and other dialysis patients.
      * Once your session is over, your provider will remove the needles and put a dressing on your access area.
      * You will probably feel tired after your sessions. 

During your first sessions, you may have some nausea, cramping, dizziness, and
headaches. This may go away after a few sessions, but be sure to tell your
providers if you feel unwell. Your providers may be able to adjust your
treatment to help you feel more comfortable.

Having too much fluid in your body that needs to be removed can cause
symptoms. This is why you should follow a strict kidney dialysis diet. Your
provider will go over this with you.

How long your dialysis session lasts depends on:

      * How well your kidneys work
      * How much waste needs to be removed
      * How much water weight you have gained
      * Your size
      * The type of dialysis machined used 

## Between Sessions

Getting dialysis does take a lot of time, and it will take some getting used
to. Between sessions, you can still go about your daily routine.

Getting kidney dialysis does not have to keep you from traveling or working.
There are many dialysis centers across the United States and in many other
countries. If you plan to travel, you will need to make appointments ahead of
time.

## When to Call Your Doctor

Call your provider if you notice:

      * Bleeding from your vascular access site
      * Signs of infection, such as redness, swelling, soreness, pain, warmth, or pus around the site
      * A fever over 100.5Â°F (38.0Â°C)
      * The arm where your catheter is placed swells and the hand on that side feels cold
      * Your hand gets cold, numb, or weak

Also, call your provider if any of the following symptoms are severe or last
more than 2 days:

      * Itching
      * Trouble sleeping
      * Diarrhea or constipation
      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Drowsiness, confusion, or problems concentrating

## Alternative Names

Artificial kidneys - dialysis centers; Dialysis - what to expect; Renal
replacement therapy - dialysis centers; End-stage renal disease - dialysis
centers; Kidney failure - dialysis centers; Renal failure - dialysis centers;
Chronic kidney disease-dialysis centers

## References

Kotanko P, Kuhlmann MK, Levin NW. Hemodialysis: principles and techniques. In:
Johnson RJ, Feehally J, Floege J, eds. _Comprehensive Clinical Nephrology_.
5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:1067-1074.

Misra M. Hemodialysis and hemofiltration. In: Gilbert SJ, Weiner DE, eds.
_National Kidney Foundation's Primer on Kidney Disease_. 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 57.

Yeun JY, Ornt DB, Depner TA. Hemodialysis. In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden
PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 65.

## Review Date 1/16/2018

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, Nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Dialysis

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

