Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000707.htm    
                                Description: Dialysis treats end-stage kidney failure. It removes waste from your blood when your kidneys can no longer do their job.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dialysis - hemodialysis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000707.htm

# Dialysis - hemodialysis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Dialysis treats end-stage kidney failure. It removes waste from your blood
when your kidneys can no longer do their job.

There are different types of kidney dialysis. This article focuses on
hemodialysis.

## What is Hemodialysis?

Your kidneys' main job is to remove toxins and extra fluid from your blood. If
waste products build up in your body, it can be dangerous and even cause
death.

Hemodialysis (and other types of dialysis) does some of the job of the kidneys
when they stop working well.

Hemodialysis can:

      * Remove extra salt, water, and waste products so they don't build up in your body
      * Keep safe levels of minerals and vitamins in your body
      * Help control blood pressure
      * Help produce red blood cells 

During hemodialysis, your blood passes through a tube into an artificial
kidney or filter.

      * The filter, called a dialyzer, is divided into 2 parts separated by a thin wall.
      * As your blood passes through one part of the filter, special fluid in the other part draws out waste from your blood.
      * Your blood then goes back into your body through a tube. 

Your doctor will create an access where the tube attaches. Usually, an access
will be in a blood vessel in your arm.

## When to Start Dialysis

Kidney failure is the last stage of long-term (chronic) kidney disease. This
is when your kidneys can no longer support your body's needs. Your doctor will
discuss dialysis with you before you need it. Usually, you will go on dialysis
when you have only 10% to 15% of your kidney function left.

You also may need dialysis if your kidneys suddenly stop working due to acute
renal failure.

## Dialysis at a Treatment Center

Hemodialysis is most often done at a special dialysis center.

      * You will have about 3 treatments a week.
      * Treatment takes about 3 to 4 hours each time.
      * You may feel tired for several hours after the dialysis. 

At a treatment center, your health care providers will handle all your care.
However, you do need to schedule your appointments and follow a strict
dialysis diet.

## Dialysis at Home

You may be able to have hemodialysis at home. You do not have to buy a
machine. Medicare or your health insurance will pay for most or all of your
treatment costs at home or in a center.

If you have dialysis at home, you can use one of two schedules:

      * Shorter (2 to 3 hours) treatments done at least 5 to 7 days per week
      * Longer, nightly treatments done 3 to 6 nights per week while you sleep 

You also may be able to do a combination of daily and nighttime treatments.

Because you have treatment more often and it happens more slowly, home
hemodialysis has some benefits:

      * It helps keep your blood pressure lower. Many people no longer need blood pressure medicines.
      * It does a better job of removing waste products.
      * It's easier on your heart.
      * You may have fewer symptoms from dialysis such as nausea, headaches, cramps, and tiredness.
      * You can more easily fit treatments into your schedule. 

You can do the treatment yourself, or you can have someone help you. A
dialysis nurse can train you and a caregiver on how to do home dialysis.
Training can take a few weeks to a few months. Both you and your caregivers
must learn to:

      * Handle the equipment
      * Place the needle into the access site
      * Monitor the machine and your blood pressure during treatment
      * Keep records
      * Clean the machine
      * Order supplies, which can be delivered to your home 

Home dialysis is not for everyone. You will have a lot to learn and need to be
responsible for your care. Some people feel more comfortable having a provider
handle their treatment. Plus, not all centers offer home dialysis.

Home dialysis may be a good option if you want more independence and are able
to learn to treat yourself. Talk with your provider. Together, you can decide
what type of hemodialysis is right for you.

## When to Call Your Doctor

Call your provider if you notice:

      * Bleeding from your vascular access site
      * Signs of infection, such as redness, swelling, soreness, pain, warmth, or pus around the site
      * A fever over 100.5Â°F (38.0Â°C)
      * The arm where your catheter is placed swells and the hand on that side feels cold
      * Your hand gets cold, numb, or weak

Also, call your doctor if any of the following symptoms are severe or last
more than 2 days:

      * Itching
      * Trouble sleeping
      * Diarrhea or constipation
      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Drowsiness, confusion, or problems concentrating

## Alternative Names

Artificial kidneys - hemodialysis; Dialysis; Renal replacement therapy -
hemodialysis; End-stage renal disease - hemodialysis; Kidney failure -
hemodialysis; Renal failure - hemodialysis; Chronic kidney disease -
hemodialysis

## References

Kotanko P, Kuhlmann MK, Levin NW. Hemodialysis: principles and techniques. In:
Johnson RJ, Feehally J, Floege J, eds. _Comprehensive Clinical Nephrology_.
5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:1067-1074.

Misra M. Hemodialysis and hemofiltration. In: Gilbert SJ, Weiner DE, eds.
_National Kidney Foundation's Primer on Kidney Disease_. 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 57.

Yeun JY, Ornt DB, Depner TA. Hemodialysis. In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden
PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 65.

## Review Date 1/16/2018

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, Nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Dialysis

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

