Link: https://medlineplus.gov/disclaimers.html    
                                Description: None    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

MedlinePlus Disclaimers

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/disclaimers.html

# MedlinePlus Disclaimers

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## Medical Information:

It is not the intention of NLM to provide specific medical advice, but rather
to provide users with information to better understand their health and their
diagnosed disorders. Specific medical advice will not be provided, and NLM
urges you to consult with a qualified physician for diagnosis and for answers
to your personal questions.

## External Links:

MedlinePlus provides links to other Internet sites for the convenience of
World Wide Web users. NLM is not responsible for the availability or content
of these external sites, nor does NLM endorse, warrant or guarantee the
products, services or information described or offered at these other Internet
sites. It is the responsibility of the user to examine the copyright and
licensing restrictions of linked pages and to secure all necessary permission.
Users cannot assume that the external sites will abide by the same provisions
as the MedlinePlus Privacy Policy.

## Liability:

For documents and software available from this server, the U.S. Government
does not warrant or assume any legal liability or responsibility for the
accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product,
or process disclosed.

## Endorsement:

NLM does not endorse or recommend any commercial products, processes, or
services. The views and opinions of authors expressed on NLM Web sites do not
necessarily state or reflect those of the U.S. Government, and they may not be
used for advertising or product endorsement purposes.

## Pop-Up Advertisements:

When visiting our Web site, your Web browser may produce pop-up
advertisements. These advertisements were most likely produced by other Web
sites you visited or by third party software installed on your computer. The
National Library of Medicine does not endorse or recommend products or
services for which you may view a pop-up advertisement on your computer screen
while visiting our site.

## License Notice:

For production and display of GIF images, this site uses Unisys patent No.
4,558,302 and/or foreign counterparts, which is licensed by Unisys for use on
this site as a public service.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Quality Guidelines
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 9 October 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

