Link: https://medlineplus.gov/pinworms.html    
                                Description: Pinworms are small parasites that spread easily. The eggs can live on household surfaces for up to 2 weeks. The infection is more common in children.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Pinworms

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/pinworms.html

#  Pinworms

Also called: Enterobiasis, Oxyuriasis, Seatworm infection, Threadworm
infection

## Summary

Pinworms are small parasites that can live in the colon and rectum. You get
them when you swallow their eggs. The eggs hatch inside your intestines. While
you sleep, the female pinworms leave the intestines through the anus and lay
eggs on nearby skin.

Pinworms spread easily. When people who are infected touch their anus, the
eggs attach to their fingertips. They can spread the eggs to others directly
through their hands, or through contaminated clothing, bedding, food, or other
articles. The eggs can live on household surfaces for up to 2 weeks.

The infection is more common in children. Many people have no symptoms at all.
Some people feel itching around the anus or vagina. The itching may become
intense, interfere with sleep, and make you irritable.

Your health care provider can diagnose pinworm infection by finding the eggs.
A common way to collect the eggs is with a sticky piece of clear tape. Mild
infections may not need treatment. If you do need medicine, everyone in the
household should take it.

To prevent becoming infected or reinfected with pinworms,

    * Bathe after waking up
    * Wash your pajamas and bed sheets often
    * Wash your hands regularly, especially after using the bathroom or changing diapers
    * Change your underwear every day
    * Avoid nail biting
    * Avoid scratching the anal area

## Learn More

    * Enterobiasis (Pinworm Infection) FAQs (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Enterobiasis (Pinworm Infection): Diagnosis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Enterobiasis (Pinworm Infection): Prevention and Control (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Enterobiasis (Pinworm Infection): Treatment (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Pinworm (for Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Pinworm Infection (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Pinworms (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Parasitic infections and medical expenses according to Health Insurance Review Assessment...
    * Article: Abdominal Pain and Intermittent Fevers in a 16-Year-Old Girl.
    * Article: Intestinal parasitic infections and associated factors in children of three rural...
    * Pinworms -- see more articles

## Patient Handouts

    * Pinworm test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Pinworms (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Pinworms](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pinworm.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Pinworms is the National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 6 March 2018 Topic last reviewed: 1 March 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

