Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000818.htm    
                                Description: Distracted driving is doing any activity that takes your attention away from driving. This includes using a cell phone to call or text while driving. Distracted driving makes you more likely to get into    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Distracted driving

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000818.htm

# Distracted driving

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Distracted driving is doing any activity that takes your attention away from
driving. This includes using a cell phone to call or text while driving.
Distracted driving makes you more likely to get into a crash.

As a result, many states have enacted laws to help stop the practice. You can
avoid distracted driving by learning how to stay safe with a cell phone in the
car.

## Examples of Distracted Driving

To drive safely, the National Safety Council says you should have:

      1. Your eyes on the road
      2. Your hands on the wheel
      3. Your mind on driving

Distracted driving occurs when something gets in the way of you doing all 3
things. Examples include:

      * Talking on a cell phone
      * Reading or sending text messages
      * Eating and drinking
      * Grooming (fixing your hair, shaving, or putting on makeup)
      * Adjusting a radio or other device that plays music
      * Using a navigation system
      * Reading (including maps)

## The Dangers of Talking on the Phone While Driving

You are 4 times more likely to get into a car crash if you are talking on a
cell phone. That is the same risk as driving drunk. Reaching for the phone,
dialing it, and talking all take your attention away from driving.

Even hands-free phones are not that safe. When drivers use hands-free phones,
they do not see or hear things that can help them avoid a crash. This includes
stop signs, red lights, and pedestrians. About 25% of all car crashes involve
cell phone use, including hands-free phones.

Talking to other people in the car is less risky than talking on a phone. A
passenger can see traffic problems ahead and stop talking. They also provide
another set of eyes to spot and point out traffic hazards.

## Texting and Driving: Even More Dangerous

Texting while driving is riskier than talking on a phone. Typing on the phone
takes more of your attention than other distractions. Even talking into the
phone to send a text message (voice-to-text) is not safe.

When you text, your eyes are off the road for an average of 5 seconds. At 55
mph, a car travels half the length of a football field in 5 seconds. A lot can
happen in that short amount of time.

## Who is at Risk

Distracted driving is a problem among people of all ages. But teens and young
adults are at the highest risk. Most teens and young people say they have
written, sent, or read texts while driving. Younger inexperienced drivers have
the highest number of fatal crashes caused by distracted driving. If you are a
parent, teach your child about the dangers of talking and texting while
driving.

## How to Stop Distracted Driving

Use these tips to steer clear of distractions while driving:

      * DO NOT multitask. Before you turn on your car, finish eating, drinking, and grooming. Program your audio and navigation systems before you start to drive.
      * When you get in the driver's seat, turn off your phone and place it out of reach. If you are caught using a phone while driving, you may risk a ticket or fine. Most states have banned texting while driving for people of all ages. Some have also banned the use of handheld phones while driving. Learn about the laws in your state at: www.nhtsa.gov/risky-driving/distracted-driving.
      * Download an app that locks the phone. These apps work by blocking features like texting and calling while the car is moving over a set speed limit. Most are controlled remotely through a website and charge a monthly or yearly fee. You can also buy systems that plug into the car's computer or are placed on the windshield that limit cell phone use while the car is moving.
      * Pledge not to use your cell phone while driving. Sign the National Highway Safety Administration's pledge at www.nhtsa.gov/risky-driving/distracted-driving. It also includes a promise to speak out if the driver in your car is distracted and to encourage friends and family to drive phone free.

## Alternative Names

Safety - distracted driving

## References

Center for Disease Control and Prevention website. Distracted driving.
www.cdc.gov/motorvehiclesafety/distracted_driving. Updated June 9, 2017.
Accessed August 10, 2018.

Klauer SG, Guo F, Simons-Morton BG, Ouimet MC, Lee SE, Dingus TA. Distracted
driving and risk of road crashes among novice and experienced drivers. _N Engl
J Med_. 2014;370(1):54-59. PMID: 24382065
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24382065.

National Highway Traffic Safety Administration website. Distracted driving.
www.nhtsa.gov/risky-driving/distracted-driving. Accessed August 2, 2018.

National Safety Council website. Ending distracted driving is everyone's
responsibility. www.nsc.org/road-safety/safety-topics/distracted-driving.
Accessed August 10, 2018.

Texas A&M Transportation Institute website. Voice-to-Text driver distraction
study. tti.tamu.edu/enhanced-project/voice-to-text-driver-distraction-study.
Accessed August 10, 2018.

## Review Date 8/3/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Impaired Driving

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

