Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000450.htm    
                                Description: Restraints in a medical setting are items that limit a patient    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Use of restraints

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000450.htm

# Use of restraints

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Restraints in a medical setting are items that limit a patient's movement.
Restraints can help keep a person from getting hurt or doing harm to others,
including their caregivers. They are used as a last resort.

There are many types of restraints. They can include:

      * Belts, vests, jackets, and mitts for the patient's hands
      * Devices that prevent people from being able to move their elbows, knees, wrists, and ankles 

Other ways to restrain a patient include:

      * A caregiver holding a patient in a way that restricts the person's movement
      * Patients being given medicines against their will to restrict their movement
      * Placing a patient in a room alone, from which the person is not free to leave 

## When are Restraints Used?

Restraints may be used to keep a person in proper position and prevent
movement or falling during surgery or while on a stretcher.

Restraints can also be used to control or prevent harmful behavior.

Sometimes hospital patients who are confused need restraints so that they do
not:

      * Scratch their skin
      * Remove catheters and tubes that give them medicine and fluids
      * Get out of bed, fall, and hurt themselves
      * Harm other people 

## Patient Rights

Restraints should not cause harm or be used as punishment. Health care
providers should first try other methods to control a patient and ensure
safety. Restraints should be used only as a last choice.

Caregivers in a hospital can use restraints in emergencies or when they are
needed for medical care. When restraints are used, they must:

      * Limit only the movements that may cause harm to the patient or caregiver
      * Be removed as soon as the patient and the caregiver are safe 

A nurse who has special training in using restraints can begin to use them. A
doctor or another provider must also be told restraints are being used. The
doctor or other provider must then sign a form to allow the continued use of
restraints.

Patients who are restrained need special care to make sure they:

      * Can have a bowel movement or urinate when they need to, using either a bedpan or toilet
      * Are kept clean
      * Get the food and fluids they need
      * Are as comfortable as possible
      * Do not injure themselves 

Patients who are restrained also need to have their blood flow checked to make
sure the restraints are not cutting off their blood flow. They also need to be
watched carefully so that the restraints can be removed as soon as the
situation is safe.

If you are not happy with how a loved one is being restrained, talk with
someone on the medical team.

Restraint use is regulated by national and state agencies. If you want to find
out more about restraints, contact The Joint Commission at
www.jointcommission.org. This agency oversees how hospitals are run in the
United States.

## Alternative Names

Restraint devices

## References

Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M. Body Safe client
environment and restraints. In: Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L,
Aebersold M, eds. _Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills_. 9th ed.
New York, NY: Pearson; 2017:chap 7.

The Joint Commission website. The Comprehensive Accreditation Manual for
Hospitals: Human Resources. www.jointcommission.org. Updated January 1, 2015.
Accessed October 27, 2017.

## Review Date 11/20/2017

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Patient Safety

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

