Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001911.htm    
                                Description: Hormonal effects in newborns occur because in the womb, babies are exposed to many chemicals (hormones) that are in the mother    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hormonal effects in newborns

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001911.htm

# Hormonal effects in newborns

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hormonal effects in newborns occur because in the womb, babies are exposed to
many chemicals (hormones) that are in the mother's bloodstream. After birth,
the infants are no longer exposed to these hormones. This exposure may cause
temporary conditions in a newborn.

## Information

Hormones from the mother (maternal hormones) are some of the chemicals that
pass through the placenta into the baby's blood during pregnancy. These
hormones can affect the baby.

For example, pregnant women produce high levels of the hormone estrogen. This
causes breast enlargement in the mother. By the third day after birth, breast
swelling may also be seen in newborn boys and girls. Such newborn breast
swelling does not last, but it is a common concern among new parents.

The breast swelling should go away by the second week after birth as the
hormones leave the newborn's body. DO NOT squeeze or massage the newborn's
breasts because this can cause an infection under the skin (abscess).

Hormones from the mother may also cause some fluid to leak from the infant's
nipples. This is called witch's milk. It is common and most often goes away
within 2 weeks.

Newborn girls may also have temporary changes in the vaginal area.

      * The skin tissue around the vaginal area, called the labia, may look puffy as a result of estrogen exposure.
      * There may be a white fluid (discharge) from the vagina. This is called physiologic leukorrhea.
      * There may also be a small amount of bleeding from the vagina. 

These changes are common and should slowly go away over the first 2 months of
life.

## Alternative Names

Newborn breast swelling; Physiologic leukorrhea

## Images

      * ![Hormonal effects in newborns](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9415t.jpg)Hormonal effects in newborns

## References

Gevers EF, Fischer DA, Dattani MT. Fetal and neonatal endocrinology. In:
Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and
Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 145.

Sucato GS, Murray PJ. Pediatric and adolescent gynecology. In: Zitelli BJ,
McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical
Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 19.

## Review Date 3/6/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Common Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Common
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

