Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001603.htm    
                                Description: Epstein pearls are whitish-yellow cysts.Â These form on the gums and roof of the mouth in a newborn baby.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Epstein pearls

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001603.htm

# Epstein pearls

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Epstein pearls are whitish-yellow cysts.Â These form on the gums and roof of
the mouth in a newborn baby.

MiliaÂ are a similar kind of skin problem in babies.

## Causes

Epstein pearls occur only in newborns and are very common. They are seen in
about 4 out of 5 newborns.

## Symptoms

The symptoms are whitish-yellow nodules that appear on the gums or the roof of
the mouth. They sometimes look like emerging teeth.

## Exams and Tests

An exam confirms that these areÂ cysts and not natal teeth.

## Treatment

No treatment is necessary. The condition is harmless.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Epstein pearls disappear within 1 to 2 weeks of birth.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you are concerned about Epstein pearls in your infant, talk to your health
care provider during a routine well-baby checkup.

## Alternative Names

Gingival cysts of the newborn

## References

Bayer ML, Drolet BA. Disorders of the mucous membranes. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor MF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;2016:chap 664.

Khorsand K, Sidbury R. Common newborn dermatoses. In: Gleason CA, Juul SE,
eds. _Avery's Diseases of the Newborn_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 106.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Common Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Common
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

