Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001602.htm    
                                Description: Diastasis recti is a separation between the left and right side of the rectus abdominis muscle. This muscle covers the front surface of the belly area.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diastasis recti

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001602.htm

# Diastasis recti

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Diastasis recti is a separation between the left and right side of the rectus
abdominis muscle. This muscle covers the front surface of the belly area.

## Causes

Diastasis recti is common in newborns. It is seen most often in premature and
African American infants.

Pregnant women may develop the condition because of increased tension on the
abdominal wall. The risk is higher with multiple births or many pregnancies.

## Symptoms

A diastasis recti looks like a ridge, which runs down the middle of the belly
area. It stretches from the bottom of the breastbone to the belly button. It
increases with muscle straining.

In infants, the condition is most easily seen when the baby tries to sit up.
When the infant is relaxed, you can often feel the edges of the rectus
muscles.

Diastasis recti is commonly seen in women who have multiple pregnancies. This
is because the muscles have been stretched many times. Extra skin and soft
tissue in the front of the abdominal wall may be the only signs of this
condition in early pregnancy. In the later part of pregnancy, the top of the
pregnant uterus can be seen bulging out of the abdominal wall. An outline of
parts of the unborn baby may be seen in some severe cases.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider can diagnose this condition with a physical exam.

## Treatment

No treatment is needed for pregnant women with this condition.

In infants, diastasis recti will disappear over time. Surgery may be needed if
the baby develops a hernia that becomes trapped in the space between the
muscles.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In some cases, diastasis recti heals on its own.

Pregnancy-related diastasis recti often lasts long after the woman gives
birth. Exercise may help improve the condition. Umbilical hernia may occur in
some cases. Surgery is rarely performed for diastasis recti.

## Possible Complications

In general, complications only result when a hernia develops.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider right away if a child with diastasis recti:

      * Develops redness or pain in the abdomen
      * Has vomiting that does not stop
      * Cries all the time 

## Images

      * ![Diastasis recti](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17155t.jpg)Diastasis recti
      * ![Abdominal muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9405t.jpg)Abdominal muscles

## References

Ledbetter DJ, Chabra S, Javid PJ. Abdominal wall defects. In: Gleason CA, Juul
SE, eds. _Avery's Diseases of the Newborn_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 73.

Turnage RH, Mizell J, Badgwell B. Abdominal wall, umbilicus, peritoneum,
mesenteries, omentum, and retroperitoneum. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD,
Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 43.

## Review Date 5/27/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Common Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Common
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![Health Problems in
Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HealthConditionsinPregnancy_thumb.jpg)Health
Problems in Pregnancy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

