Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000414.htm    
                                Description: Paget disease is a disorder that involves abnormal bone destruction and regrowth. This results in deformity of the affected bones.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Paget disease of the bone

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000414.htm

# Paget disease of the bone

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Paget disease is a disorder that involves abnormal bone destruction and
regrowth. This results in deformity of the affected bones.

## Causes

The cause of Paget disease is unknown. It may be due to genetic factors, but
also could be due to a viral infection early in life.

The disease occurs worldwide, but is more common in Europe, Australia, and New
Zealand. The disease has become much less common over the last 50 years.

In people with Paget disease, there is an abnormal breakdown of bone tissue in
specific areas. This is followed by abnormal bone formation. The new area of
bone is larger, but weaker. The new bone is also filled with new blood
vessels.

The affected bone may only be in one or two areas of the skeleton, or in many
different bones in the body. It more often involves bones of the arms,
collarbones, legs, pelvis, spine, and skull.

## Symptoms

Most people with the condition have no symptoms. Paget disease is often
diagnosed when an x-ray is done for another reason. It may also be discovered
when trying to find the cause of high blood calcium levels.

If they do occur, symptoms may include:

      * Bone pain, joint pain or stiffness, and neck pain (the pain may be severe and present most of the time)
      * Bowing of the legs and other visible deformities
      * Enlarged head and skull deformities
      * Fracture
      * Headache
      * Hearing loss
      * Reduced height
      * Warm skin over the affected bone 

## Exams and Tests

Tests that may indicate Paget disease include:

      * Bone scan
      * Bone x-ray
      * Elevated markers of bone breakdown (for example, N-telopeptide) 

This disease may also affect the results of the following tests:

      * Alkaline phosphatase (ALP), bone specific isoenzyme
      * Serum calcium

## Treatment

Not all people with Paget disease need to be treated. People who may not need
treatment include those who:

      * Only have mildly abnormal blood tests
      * Have no symptoms and no evidence of active disease

Paget disease is commonly treated when:

      * Certain bones, such as weight-bearing bones, are involved and the risk of fracture is higher.
      * Bony changes are getting worse quickly (treatment can reduce the risk of fractures).
      * Bony deformities are present.
      * A person has pain or other symptoms.
      * The skull is affected. (This is to prevent hearing loss.)
      * The calcium levels are elevated and causing symptoms.

Drug therapy helps prevent further bone breakdown and formation. Currently,
there are several classes of drugs used to treat Paget disease. These include:

      * Bisphosphonates: These drugs are the first treatment, and they help decrease bone remodeling. Medicines are commonly taken by mouth, but can also be given through a vein (intravenously).
      * Calcitonin: This hormone is involved in bone metabolism. It may be given as a nasal spray (Miacalcin), or as an injection under the skin (Calcimar or Mithracin).

Acetaminophen (Tylenol) or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may
also be given for pain. In severe cases, orthopedic surgery may be needed to
correct a deformity.

## Support Groups

People with this condition may benefit from taking part in support groups for
people with similar experiences.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most of the time, the condition can be controlled with medicines. A small
number of people may develop a cancer of the bone called osteosarcoma. Some
people will need joint replacement surgery.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Bone fractures
      * Deafness
      * Deformities
      * Heart failure
      * Hypercalcemia
      * Paraplegia
      * Spinal stenosis

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you develop symptoms of Paget disease.

## Alternative Names

Osteitis deformans

## Images

      * ![X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1057t.jpg)X-ray

## References

Ralston SH. Paget disease of bone. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 247.

Singer FR. Paget's disease of bone. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser
DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 72.

## Review Date 11/17/2017

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Paget's Disease of
Bone](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PagetsDiseaseofBone_thumb.jpg)Paget's
Disease of Bone _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

