Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001122.htm    
                                Description: An aneurysm is an abnormal widening or ballooning of a part of an artery due to weakness in the wall of the blood vessel.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aneurysm

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001122.htm

# Aneurysm

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An aneurysm is an abnormal widening or ballooning of a part of an artery due
to weakness in the wall of the blood vessel.

## Causes

It is not clear exactly what causes aneurysms. Some aneurysms are present at
birth (congenital). Defects in some parts of the artery wall may be a cause.

Common locations for aneurysms include:

      * Major artery from the heart such as the thoracic or abdominal aorta
      * Brain (cerebral aneurysm)
      * Behind the knee in the leg (popliteal artery aneurysm)
      * Intestine (mesenteric artery aneurysm)
      * Artery in the spleen (splenic artery aneurysm) 

High blood pressure, high cholesterol, and cigarette smoking may raise your
risk for certain types of aneurysms. High blood pressure is thought to play a
role in abdominal aortic aneurysms. Atherosclerotic disease (cholesterol
buildup in arteries) may also lead to the formation of some aneurysms. Certain
genes or conditions such as fibromuscular dysplasia can result in aneurysms.

Pregnancy is often linked to the formation and rupture of splenic artery
aneurysms.

## Symptoms

The symptoms depend on where the aneurysm is located. If the aneurysm occurs
near the body's surface, pain and swelling with a throbbing lump is often
seen.

Aneurysms in the body or brain often cause no symptoms. Aneurysms in the brain
may expand without breaking open (rupturing). The expanded aneurysm may press
on nerves and cause double vision, dizziness, or headaches. Some aneurysms may
cause ringing in the ears.

If an aneurysm ruptures, pain, low blood pressure, a rapid heart rate, and
lightheadedness may occur. When a brain aneurysm ruptures, there is a sudden
severe headache that some people say is the "worst headache of my life." The
risk of coma or death after a rupture is high.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam.

Tests used to diagnose an aneurysm include:

      * CT scan
      * CT angiogram
      * MRI
      * MRA
      * Ultrasound
      * Angiogram

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the size and location of the aneurysm. Your provider may
only recommend regular checkups to see if the aneurysm is growing.

Surgery may be done. The type of surgery that is done and when you need it
depend on your symptoms and the size and type of aneurysm.

Surgery may involve a large (open) surgical cut. Sometimes, a procedure called
endovascular embolization is done. Coils or stents of metal are inserted into
a brain aneurysm to make the aneurysm clot. This reduces the risk for rupture
while keeping the artery open. Other brain aneurysms may need to have a clip
placed on them to close them off and prevent a rupture.

Aneurysms of the aorta may be reinforced with surgery to strengthen the blood
vessel wall.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop a lump on your body, whether or not it is
painful and throbbing.

With an aortic aneurysm, go to the emergency room or call 911 if you have pain
in your belly or back that is very bad or does not go away.

With a brain aneurysm, go to the emergency room or call the local emergency
number (such as 911) if you have a sudden or severe headache, especially if
you also have nausea, vomiting, seizures, or any other nervous system symptom.

If you are diagnosed with an aneurysm that has not bled, you will need to
undergo regular testing to detect if it increases in size.

## Prevention

Controlling high blood pressure may help prevent some aneurysms. Follow a
healthy diet, get regular exercise, and keep your cholesterol at a healthy
level to also help prevent aneurysms or their complications.

DO NOT smoke. If you do smoke, quitting will lower your risk for an aneurysm.

## Alternative Names

Aneurysm - splenic artery; Aneurysm - popliteal artery; Aneurysm - mesenteric
artery

## Images

      * ![Cerebral aneurysm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17031t.jpg)Cerebral aneurysm
      * ![Aortic aneurysm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18072t.jpg)Aortic aneurysm
      * ![Intracerebellar hemorrhage - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2316t.jpg)Intracerebellar hemorrhage - CT scan

## References

Britz GW, Zhang YJ, Desai VR, Scranton RA, Pai NS, West GA. Surgical
approaches to intracranial aneurysms. In: Winn HR, ed. _Youmans and Winn
Neurological Surgery._ 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 383.

Cheng CC, Cheema F, Fankhauser G, Silva MB. Peripheral arterial disease. In:
Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of
Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 62.

Deaton DH. Arterial aneurysms: general considerations. In: Cronenwett JL,
Johnston KW, eds. _Rutherford's Vascular Surgery_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 129.

## Review Date 4/4/2018

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery,
Holston Valley Medical Center, TN; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at
UCSF, San Francisco, CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Aneurysms](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AneurysmsandAorticAneurysm_thumb.jpg)Aneurysms
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

