Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000412.htm    
                                Description: Raynaud phenomenon is a condition in which cold temperatures or strong emotions cause blood vessel spasms. This blocks blood flow to the fingers, toes, ears, and nose.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Raynaud phenomenon

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000412.htm

# Raynaud phenomenon

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Raynaud phenomenon is a condition in which cold temperatures or strong
emotions cause blood vessel spasms. This blocks blood flow to the fingers,
toes, ears, and nose.

## Causes

Raynaud phenomenon is called "primary" when it is not linked to another
disorder. It most often begins in women younger than age 30. Secondary Raynaud
phenomenon is linked to other conditions and usually occurs in people who are
over age 30.

Common causes of secondary Raynaud phenomenon are:

      * Diseases of the arteries (such as atherosclerosis and Buerger disease)
      * Drugs that cause narrowing of arteries (such as amphetamines, certain types of beta-blockers, some cancer drugs, certain drugs used for migraine headaches)
      * Arthritis and autoimmune conditions (such as scleroderma, SjÃ¶gren syndrome, rheumatoid arthritis, and systemic lupus erythematosus)
      * Certain blood disorders, such as cold agglutinin disease or cryoglobulinemia  

      * Repeated injury or usage such as from heavy use of hand tools or vibrating machines
      * Smoking
      * Frostbite
      * Thoracic outlet syndrome

## Symptoms

Exposure to the cold or strong emotions bring on the changes.

      * First, the fingers, toes, ears, or nose become white, and then turn blue. Fingers are most commonly affected, but toes, ears or the nose can also change color.
      * When blood flow returns, the area becomes red and then later returns to normal color.
      * The attacks may last from minutes to hours.

People with primary Raynaud phenomenon have problems in the same fingers on
both sides. Most people do not have much pain. The skin of the arms or legs
develops bluish blotches. This goes away when the skin is warmed up.

People with secondary Raynaud phenomenon are more likely to have pain or
tingling in the fingers. Painful ulcers may form on the affected fingers if
the attacks are very bad.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider can often discover the condition causing Raynaud
phenomenon by asking you questions and doing a physical exam.

Tests that may be done to confirm the diagnosis include:

      * Examination of the blood vessels in the fingertips using a special lens called nailfold capillary microscopy
      * Vascular ultrasound
      * Blood tests to look for arthritic and autoimmune conditions that may cause Raynaud phenomenon

## Treatment

Taking these steps may help control Raynaud phenomenon:

      * Keep the body warm. Avoid exposure to cold in any form. Wear mittens or gloves outdoors and when handling ice or frozen food. Avoid getting chilled, which may happen after any active recreational sport.
      * Stop smoking. Smoking causes blood vessels to narrow even more.
      * Avoid caffeine.
      * Avoid taking medicines that cause blood vessels to tighten or spasm.
      * Wear comfortable, roomy shoes and wool socks. When outside, always wear shoes.

Your provider may prescribe medicines to dilate the walls of the blood
vessels. These include topical nitroglycerin cream that you rub on your skin,
calcium channel blockers, sildenafil (Viagra), and ACE inhibitors.

Low dose aspirin is often used to prevent blood clots.

For severe disease (such as when gangrene begins in fingers or toes),
intravenous medicines may be used. Surgery may also be done to cut nerves that
cause spasm in the blood vessels. People are most often hospitalized when the
condition is this serious.

It is vital to treat the condition causing Raynaud phenomenon.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome varies. It depends onÂ the cause of the problem and how bad it is.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Gangrene or skin ulcers may occur if an artery becomes completely blocked. This problem is more likely in people who also have arthritis or autoimmune conditions.
      * Fingers may become thin and tapered with smooth shiny skin and nails that grow slowly. This is due to the poor blood flow to the areas. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You have a history of Raynaud phenomenon and the affected body part (hand, foot, or other part) becomes infected or develops a sore.
      * Your fingers change color, especially white or blue, when they are cold.
      * Your fingers or toes turn black or the skin breaks down.
      * You have a sore on the skin of your feet or hands which does not heal.
      * You have a fever, swollen or painful joints, or skin rashes.

## Alternative Names

Raynaud's phenomenon; Raynaud's disease

## Images

      * ![Raynaud's phenomenon](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17127t.jpg)Raynaud's phenomenon
      * ![Systemic lupus erythematosus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17134t.jpg)Systemic lupus erythematosus
      * ![Circulatory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8747t.jpg)Circulatory system

## References

Giglia JS. Raynaud's phenomenon. In: Cameron JL, Cameron AM, eds. _Current
Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:1047-1052.

Landry GJ. Raynaud phenomenon. In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds. _Rutherford's
Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 141.

Roustit M, Giai J, Gaget O, et al. On-demand Sildenafil as a treatment for
Raynaud Phenomenon: a series of n-of-1 trials. _Ann Intern Med_.
2018;169(10):694-703. PMID: 30383134 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30383134.

Stringer T, Femia AN. Raynaud's phenomenon: current concepts. _Clin Dermatol_.
2018;36(4):498-507. PMID: 30047433 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30047433.

## Review Date 4/8/2019

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, MACR, ABIM Board Certified in
Rheumatology, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Raynaud's
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RaynaudsDisease_thumb.jpg)Raynaud's
Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

