Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000624.htm    
                                Description: &#10;&#10;&#10; &#10;You are going home after a C-section. You should expect to need help caring for yourself and your newborn. Talk to your partner, parents, in-laws, or friends.&#10;&#10;    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Going home after a C-section

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000624.htm

# Going home after a C-section

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You are going home after a C-section. You should expect to need help caring
for yourself and your newborn. Talk to your partner, parents, in-laws, or
friends.

## What to Expect at Home

You may have bleeding from your vagina for up to 6 weeks. It will slowly
become less red, then pink, and then will have more of a yellow or white
color. Bleeding and discharge after delivery is called lochia.

At first, your cut (incision) will be raised slightly and pinker than the rest
of your skin. It will likely appear somewhat puffy.

      * Any pain should decrease after 2 or 3 days, but your cut will remain tender for up to 3 weeks or more.
      * Most women need pain medicine for the first few days to 2 weeks. Ask your provider what is safe to take while breastfeeding.
      * Over time, your scar will become thinner and flatter and will turn either white or the color of your skin. 

You will need a checkup with your health care provider in 4 to 6 weeks.

## Incision Care

If you go home with a dressing (bandage), change the dressing over your cut
once a day, or sooner if it gets dirty or wet.

      * Your provider will tell you when to stop keeping your wound covered.
      * Keep the wound area clean by washing it with mild soap and water. You don't need to scrub it. Often, just letting the water run over your wound in the shower is enough.
      * You may remove your wound dressing and take showers if stitches, staples, or glue were used to close your skin.
      * DO NOT soak in a bathtub or hot tub, or go swimming, until your provider tells you it is OK. In most cases, this is not until 3 weeks after surgery. 

If strips (Steri-Strips) were used to close your incision:

      * DO NOT try to wash off the Steri-Strips or glue. It is OK to shower and pat your incision dry with a clean towel.
      * They should fall off in about a week. If they are still there after 10 days, you can remove them, unless your provider tells you not to.

## Activity

Getting up and walking around once you are home will help you heal faster and
can help prevent blood clots.

You should be able to do most of your regular activities in 4 to 8 weeks.
Before then:

      * Do not lift anything heavier than your baby for the first 6 to 8 weeks.
      * Short walks are an excellent way to increase strength and stamina. Light housework is OK. Slowly increase how much you do.
      * Expect to tire easily. Listen to your body, and don't be active to the point of exhaustion.
      * Avoid heavy housecleaning, jogging, most exercises, and any activities that make you breathe hard or strain your muscles. Do not do sit-ups. 

Don't drive a car for at least 2 weeks. It is OK to ride in a car, but make
sure you wear your seat belt. Don't drive if you are taking narcotic pain
medicine or if you feel weak or unsafe driving.

## Other Self-care

Try eating smaller meals than normal and have healthy snacks in between. Eat
plenty of fruits and vegetables, and drink 8 cups (2 liters) of water a day to
keep from getting constipated.

Any hemorrhoids you develop should slowly decrease in size. Some may go away.
Methods that may help the symptoms include:

      * Warm tub baths (shallow enough to keep your incision above the water level).
      * Cold compresses over the area.
      * Over-the-counter pain relievers.
      * Over-the-counter hemorrhoid ointments or suppositories.
      * Bulk laxatives to prevent constipation. If necessary, ask your provider for recommendations. 

Sex can begin any time after 6 weeks. Also, be sure to talk with your provider
about contraception after pregnancy. This decision should be made before you
leave the hospital.

After C-sections that follow a difficult labor, some moms feel relieved. But
others feel sad, disappointed, or even guilty about needing a C-section.

      * Many of these feelings are normal, even for women who had a vaginal birth.
      * Try talking with your partner, family, or friends about your feelings.
      * Seek help from your provider if these feelings do not go away or become worse. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have vaginal bleeding that:

      * Is still very heavy (like your menstrual period flow) after more than 4 days
      * Is light but lasts beyond 4 weeks
      * Involves the passing of large clots 

Also call your provider if you have:

      * Swelling in one of your legs (it will be red and warmer than the other leg)
      * Pain in your calf
      * Redness, warmth, swelling, or drainage from your incision site, or your incision breaks open
      * Fever more than 100Â°F (37.8Â°C) that persists (swollen breasts may cause a mild elevation of temperature)
      * Increased pain in your belly
      * Discharge from your vagina that becomes heavier or develops a foul odor
      * Become very sad, depressed, or withdrawn, are having feelings of harming yourself or your baby, or are having trouble caring for yourself or your baby
      * A tender, reddened, or warm area on one breast (this may be a sign of infection) 

Postpartum preeclampsia, while rare, can occur after delivery, even if you did
not have preeclampsia during your pregnancy. Call your provider right away if
you:

      * Have swelling in your hands, face, or eyes (edema)
      * Suddenly gain weight over 1 or 2 days, or you gain more than 2 pounds (1 kilogram) in a week
      * Have a headache that does not go away or becomes worse
      * Have vision changes, such as you cannot see for a short time, see flashing lights or spots, are sensitive to light, or have blurry vision
      * Body pain and achiness (similar to body pain with a high fever) 

## Alternative Names

Cesarean - going home

## References

American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists; Task Force on
Hypertension in Pregnancy. Hypertension in pregnancy. Report of the American
College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists' Task Force on Hypertension in
Pregnancy. _Obstet Gynecol_. 2013;122(5):1122-1131. PMID: 24150027
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24150027.

Beghella V, Mackeen AD, Jaunaiux ERM. Cesarean delivery. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl
JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 19.

Isley MM, Katz VL. Postpartum care and long-term health considerations. In:
Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 23.

Sibai BM. Preeclampsia and hypertensive disorders. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR,
Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 31.

## Review Date 8/16/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cesarean Section

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

