Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000620.htm    
                                Description: Most women will remain in the hospital for 2 to 3 days after a cesarean birth (C-section). Take advantage of the time to bond with your new baby, get some rest, and receive some help with breastfeeding    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

After a C-section - in the hospital

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000620.htm

# After a C-section - in the hospital

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Most women will remain in the hospital for 2 to 3 days after a cesarean birth
(C-section). Take advantage of the time to bond with your new baby, get some
rest, and receive some help with breastfeeding and caring for your baby.

## What to Expect after a C-section

Right after surgery you may feel:

      * Groggy from any medicines you received
      * Nausea for the first day or so
      * Itchy, if you received narcotics in your epidural

You will be brought to a recovery area right after surgery, where a nurse
will:

      * Monitor your blood pressure, heart rate, and the amount of your vaginal bleeding
      * Check to make sure your uterus is becoming firmer
      * Bring you to a hospital room once you are stable, where you will spend the next few days

After the excitement of finally delivering and holding your baby, you may
notice just how tired you are.

Your belly will be painful at first, but it will improve a lot over 1 to 2
days.

Some women feel sadness or an emotional letdown after delivery. These feelings
are not uncommon. DO NOT feel ashamed. Talk with your health care providers
and partner.

## Seeing and Caring for Your Baby

Breastfeeding can often begin right after surgery. The nurses can help you
find the right position. Numbness from your anesthetic can limit your movement
for a while, and pain in your cut (incision) can make it a little harder to
become comfortable, but do not give up. The nurses can show you how to hold
your baby so there is no pressure on your cut (incision) or abdomen.

Holding and caring for your new infant is exciting, making up for the long
journey of your pregnancy and the pain and discomfort of labor. Nurses and
breastfeeding specialists are available to answer questions and help you.

Also take advantage of the babysitting and room service the hospital provides
for you. You are going home to both the joys of being a mother and the demands
of caring for a newborn infant.

## Activity

Between feeling exhausted after labor and managing the pain from the surgery,
getting out of bed may seem like too big of a task.

But getting out of bed at least once or twice a day at first can help speed
your recovery. It also decreases your chance of having blood clots and helps
your bowels move.

Make sure someone is around to help you in case you get dizzy or weak. Plan on
taking your walks soon after you have received some pain medicine.

## Contractions and Bleeding

Once you deliver, the heavy contractions are over. But your uterus still needs
to contract to shrink back to its normal size and prevent heavy bleeding.
Breastfeeding also helps your uterus contract. These contractions may be
somewhat painful, but they are important.

As your uterus becomes firmer and smaller, you are less likely to have heavy
bleeding. Blood flow should gradually become slower during your first day. You
may notice a few smaller clots passing when the nurse presses on your uterus
to check it.

## Pain Relief

Your epidural, or spinal, catheter can also be used for pain relief after
surgery. It may be left in for up to 24 hours after delivery.

If you did not have an epidural, you may receive pain medicines directly into
your veins through an intravenous line (IV) after surgery.

      * This line runs through a pump that will be set to give you a certain amount of pain medicine.
      * Often, you can push a button to give yourself more pain relief when you need it.
      * This is called patient controlled analgesia (PCA).

You will then be switched to pain pills that you take by mouth, or you may
receive shots of medicine. It is OK to ask for pain medicine when you need it.

## What Else?

You will have a urinary (Foley) catheter in place right after surgery, but
this will be removed on the first day after surgery.

The area around your cut (incision) may be sore, numb, or both. Sutures or
staples are often removed around the second day, just before you leave the
hospital.

At first you may be asked to only eat ice chips or take sips of water, at
least until your provider is certain you are not likely to have very heavy
bleeding. Most likely, you will be able to eat a light diet 8 hours after your
C-section.

## Alternative Names

Cesarean section - in the hospital; Postpartum - cesarean

## Images

      * ![Cesarean section](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17043t.jpg)Cesarean section
      * ![Cesarean section](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17044t.jpg)Cesarean section

## References

Berghella V, Mackeen AD, Jauniaux ERM. Cesarean delivery. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl
JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 19.

Thorp JM, Grantz KL. Clinical aspects of normal and abnormal labor. In: Resnik
R, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, Copel JA, Silver RM, eds. _Creasy and
Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 43.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cesarean Section

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

