Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002911.htm    
                                Description: A C-section is the delivery of a baby by making an opening in the mother    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

C-section

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002911.htm

# C-section

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A C-section is the delivery of a baby by making an opening in the mother's
lower belly area. It is also called a cesarean delivery.

## Description

A C-section delivery is done when it is not possible or safe for the mother to
deliver the baby through the vagina.

The procedure is most often done while the woman is awake. The body is numbed
from the chest to the feet using epidural or spinal anesthesia.

![Cesarean section](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1079.jpg)

1\. The surgeon makes a cut across the belly just above the pubic area.

2\. The womb (uterus) and amniotic sac are opened.

3\. The baby is delivered through this opening.

The health care team clears fluids from the baby's mouth and nose. The
umbilical cord is cut. TheÂ health care provider will make sure that the
infant's breathing is normal and other vital signs are stable.

The mother is awake during the procedure so she will be able to hear and see
her baby. In many cases, the woman is able to have a support person with her
during the delivery.

The surgery takes about 1 hour.

![Cesarean
section](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200111t.gif)Watch this
video about:Cesarean section

## Why the Procedure is Performed

There are many reasons why a woman may need to have a C-section instead of a
vaginal delivery. The decision will depend on your doctor, where you are
having the baby, your previous deliveries, and your medical history.

Problems with the baby may include:

      * Abnormal heart rate
      * Abnormal position in the womb, such as crosswise (transverse) or feet-first (breech)
      * Developmental problems, such as hydrocephalus or spina bifida
      * Multiple pregnancy (triplets or twins) 

Health problems in the mother may include:

      * Active genital herpes infection
      * Large uterine fibroids near the cervix
      * HIV infection in the mother
      * Past C-section
      * Past surgery on the uterus
      * Severe illness, such as heart disease, preeclampsia or eclampsia

Problems at the time of labor or delivery may include:

      * Baby's head is too large to pass through the birth canal
      * Labor that takes too long or stops
      * Very large baby
      * Infection or fever during labor 

Problems with the placenta or umbilical cord may include:

      * Placenta covers all or part of the opening to the birth canal (placenta previa)
      * Placenta separates from the uterine wall (placenta abruptio)
      * Umbilical cord comes through the opening of the birth canal before the baby (umbilical cord prolapse) 
![Cesarean section](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17043.jpg)

## Risks

A C-section is a safe procedure. The rate of serious complications is very
low. However, certain risks are higher after C-section than after vaginal
delivery. These include:

      * Infection of the bladder or uterus
      * Injury to the urinary tract
      * Higher average blood loss 

Most of the time, a transfusion is not needed, but risk is higher.

A C-section may also cause problems in future pregnancies. This includes a
higher risk for:

      * Placenta previa
      * Placenta growing into the muscle of the uterus and has trouble separating after the baby is born (placenta accreta)
      * Uterine rupture 

These conditions can lead to severe bleeding (hemorrhage), which may require
blood transfusions or removal of the uterus (hysterectomy).

## After the Procedure

Most women will remain in the hospital for 2 to 3 days after a C-section. Take
advantage of the time to bond with your baby, get some rest, and receive some
help with breastfeeding and caring for your baby.

Recovery takes longer than it would from a vaginal birth. You should walk
around after the C-section to speed recovery. Pain medicines taken by mouth
can help ease discomfort.

Recovery after a C-section at home is slower than after a vaginal delivery.
You may have bleeding from your vagina for up to 6 weeks. You will need to
learn to care for your wound.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most mothers and infants do well after a C-section.

Women who have a C-section may have a vaginal delivery if another pregnancy
occurs, depending on:

      * The type of C-section done
      * Why the C-section was done

Vaginal birth after cesarean (VBAC) delivery is very often successful. Not all
hospitals or providers offer the option of VBAC. There is a small risk of
uterine rupture, which can harm the mother and the baby. Discuss the benefits
and risks of VBAC with your provider.

## Alternative Names

Abdominal delivery; Abdominal birth; Cesarean birth; Pregnancy - cesarean

## Images

      * ![Cesarean section](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1079t.jpg)Cesarean section
      * ![C-Section - Series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19137t.jpg)C-section - series
      * ![Cesarean section](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17043t.jpg)Cesarean section

## References

Berghella V, Mackeen AD, Jauniaux ERM. Cesarean delivery. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl
JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 19.

Hull AD, Resnik R. Placenta previa, placenta accreta, abruptio placentae, and
vasa previa. In: Creasy RK, Resnik R, Iams JD, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene
MF, eds. _Creasy and Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine: Principles and
Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 46.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cesarean
Section](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CesareanSection_thumb.jpg)Cesarean
Section _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

