Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000028.htm    
                                Description: Although cesarean (C-sections) are relatively safe surgical procedures, they should only be performed in appropriate medical circumstances. Some of the most common reasons for a cesarean are:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Videos & Tools ->

Health Videos ->

Cesarean section

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000028.htm

# Cesarean section

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Play health video: //medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200111_eng.mp4

What's this?Play health video with audio description:
//medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200111_eng_ad.mp4

## Overview

Although cesarean (C-sections) are relatively safe surgical procedures, they
should only be performed in appropriate medical circumstances. Some of the
most common reasons for a cesarean are:

      * If the baby is in a feet first (breech) position.
      * If the baby is in a shoulder first (transverse) position.
      * If the baby's head is too large to fit through the birth canal.
      * If labor is prolonged and the mother's cervix will not dilate to 10 centimeters.
      * If the mother has placenta previa, where the placenta is blocking the birth canal.
      * If there are signs of fetal distress which is when the fetus is in danger because of decreased oxygen flow to the fetus. 

Some common causes of fetal distress are:

      * Compression of the umbilical cord.
      * Compression of major blood vessels in the mother's abdomen because of her birthing position.
      * Maternal illness due to hypertension, anemia, or heart disease. 

Like many surgical procedures, cesarean sections require anesthesia. Usually,
the mother is given an epidural or a spinal block. Both of these will numb the
lower body, but the mother will remain awake. If the baby has to be delivered
quickly, as in an emergency, the mother may be given a general anesthetic,
which will make her fall asleep.

During the surgery, an incision is made in the lower abdomen followed by an
incision made in the uterus. There is no pain associated with either of these
incisions because of the anesthesia. The doctor will open the uterus and the
amniotic sac. Then the baby is carefully eased through the incision and out
into the world. The procedure usually lasts about 20 minutes.

Afterward, the physician delivers the placenta and stitches up the incisions
in the uterus and abdominal wall. Usually, the mother is allowed to leave the
hospital within a few days, barring complications like wound infections.

One concern that many women have is whether they'll be able to have a normal
delivery after having a cesarean. The answer depends on what the reasons were
for having the c-section in the first place. If it was because of a one-time
problem, like umbilical cord compression or breech position, then the mother
may be able to have a normal birth.

Therefore, as long as the mother has had one or two previous cesarean
deliveries with a low-transverse uterine incision, and there are no other
indications for a cesarean, she is a candidate for vaginal birth after
cesarean, also called VBAC (say as "vee-back").

Cesarean sections are safe, and can even save the lives of both mother and
baby during emergency deliveries. Expectant mothers should be prepared for the
possibility of having one. Keep in mind, in childbirth, it's not only the
delivery method that matters, but the end result: a healthy mother and baby.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cesarean Section

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

