Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000014.htm    
                                Description: A dislocation is a separation of two bones where they meet at a joint. Joints are areas where two bones come together.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dislocation

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000014.htm

# Dislocation

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A dislocation is a separation of two bones where they meet at a joint. Joints
are areas where two bones come together.

A dislocated joint is a joint where the bones are no longer in their normal
positions.

## Considerations

It may be hard to tell a dislocated joint from a broken bone. Both are
emergencies that need first aid treatment.

Most dislocations can be treated in a doctor's office or emergency room. You
may be given medicine to make you sleepy and to numb the area. Sometimes,
general anesthesia that puts you into a deep sleep is needed.

When treated early, most dislocations do not cause permanent injury.

You should expect that:

      * Injuries to the surrounding tissues generally take 6 to 12 weeks to heal. Sometimes, surgery to repair a ligament that tears when the joint is dislocated is needed.
      * Injuries to nerves and blood vessels may result in more long-term or permanent problems. 

Once a joint has been dislocated, it is more likely to happen again. After
being treated in the emergency room, you should follow-up with an orthopedic
surgeon (a bone and joint doctor).

## Causes

Dislocations are usually caused by a sudden impact to the joint. This usually
occurs following a blow, fall, or other trauma.

## Symptoms

A dislocated joint may be:

      * Accompanied by numbness or tingling at the joint or beyond it
      * Very painful, especially if you try to use the joint or put weight on it
      * Limited in movement
      * Swollen or bruised
      * Visibly out of place, discolored, or misshapen

Nursemaid's elbow, or pulled elbow, is a partial dislocation that is common in
toddlers. The main symptom is pain so that the child doesn't want to use the
arm. This dislocation can be easily treated in a doctor's office.

## First Aid

First aid steps to take:

      1. Call 911 before you begin treating someone who may have a dislocation, especially if the accident that caused the injury may be life threatening.
      2. If the person has a serious injury, check their airway, breathing, and circulation. If necessary, begin CPR, or bleeding control.
      3. Do not move the person if you think that their head, back, or leg has been injured. Keep the person calm and still.
      4. If the skin is broken, take steps to prevent infection. Do not blow on the wound. Rinse the area gently with clean water to remove any dirt you can see, but do not scrub or probe. Cover the area with sterile dressings before immobilizing the injured joint.
      5. Apply a splint or sling to the injured joint in the position in which you found it. Do not move the joint. Also immobilize the area above and below the injured area.
      6. Check blood circulation around the injury by pressing firmly on the skin in the affected area. It should turn white, then regain color within a couple of seconds after you stop pressing on it. To reduce the risk of developing infection, do not do this step if the skin is broken.
      7. Apply ice packs to ease pain and swelling, but do not put ice directly on the skin. Wrap the ice in a clean cloth.
      8. Take steps to prevent shock. Unless there is a head, leg, or back injury, lay the victim flat, elevate their feet about 12 inches (30 centimeters), and cover the person with a coat or blanket. 

## DO NOT

      * Do NOT move the person unless the injury has been completely immobilized.
      * Do NOT move a person with an injured hip, pelvis, or upper leg unless it is absolutely necessary. If you are the only rescuer and the person must be moved, dragÂ them by their clothing.
      * Do NOT attempt to straighten a misshapen bone or joint orÂ try toÂ change its position.
      * Do NOT test a misshapen bone or joint for loss of function.
      * Do NOT give the person anything by mouth.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call 911 right away if the person has any of the following:

      * A bone projecting through the skin
      * A known or suspected dislocation or broken bone 
      * An area below the injured joint that is pale, cold, clammy, or blue 
      * Severe bleeding 
      * Signs of infection, such as warmth or redness at the injured site, pus, or a fever 

## Prevention

To help prevent injuries in children:

      * Create a safe environment around your home.
      * Help prevent falls by placing gates at stairways and keeping windows closed and locked.
      * Keep a watchful eye on children at all times. There is no substitute for close supervision, no matter how safe the environment or situation appears to be.
      * Teach children how to be safe and look out for themselves.

To help prevent dislocations in adults:

      * To avoid falls, do not stand on chairs, countertops, or other unstable objects.
      * Eliminate throw rugs, especiallyÂ around older adults.
      * Wear protective gear when participating in contact sports.

For all age groups:

      * Keep a first aid kit handy.
      * Remove electrical cords from floors.
      * Use handrails on staircases.
      * Use nonskid mats on the bottom of bathtubs andÂ do notÂ useÂ bath oils.

## Alternative Names

Joint dislocation

## Images

      * ![Radial head injury](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17259t.jpg)Radial head injury
      * ![Dislocation of the hip](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19098t.jpg)Dislocation of the hip
      * ![Shoulder joint](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19623t.jpg)Shoulder joint

## References

Klimke A, Furin M, Overberger R. Prehospital immobilization. In: Roberts JR,
Custalow CB, Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in
Emergency Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 46.

Mascioli AA. Acute dislocations. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds.
_Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 60.

Naples RM, Ufberg JW. Management of common dislocations. In: Roberts JR,
Custalow CB, Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in
Emergency Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 49.

## Review Date 4/9/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Dislocations](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dislocations_thumb.jpg)Dislocations
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

