Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001070.htm    
                                Description: Kneecap dislocation occurs when the triangle-shaped bone covering the knee (patella) moves or slides out of place. The dislocation often occurs toward the outside of the leg.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Kneecap dislocation

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001070.htm

# Kneecap dislocation

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Kneecap dislocation occurs when the triangle-shaped bone covering the knee
(patella) moves or slides out of place. The dislocation often occurs toward
the outside of the leg.

## Causes

Kneecap (patella) often occurs after a sudden change in direction when your
leg is planted. This puts your kneecap under stress. This can occur when
playing certain sports, such as basketball.

Dislocation may also occur as result of direct trauma. When the kneecap is
dislocated, it can slip sideways to the outside of the knee.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of kneecap dislocation include:

      * Knee appears to be deformed
      * Knee is bent and cannot be straightened out
      * Kneecap (patella) dislocates to the outside of the knee
      * Knee pain and tenderness
      * Knee swelling
      * "Sloppy" kneecap -- you can move the kneecap too much from right to left (hypermobile patella)

The first few times this occurs, you will feel pain and be unable to walk. If
you continue to have dislocations, your knee may not hurt as much and you may
not be as disabled. This is not a reason to avoid treatment. Kneecap
dislocation damages your knee joint. It can lead to cartilage injuries and
increase the risk of developing osteoarthritis at a younger age.

## First Aid

If you can, straighten outÂ your knee. If it is stuck and painful to move,
stabilize (splint) the knee and get medical attention.

Your health care provider will examineÂ your knee.Â This mayÂ confirm that the
kneecap is dislocated.

Your provider may order a knee x-ray or an MRI. These tests can show if the
dislocation caused a broken bone or cartilage damage. If tests show that you
have no damage, your knee will be placed into an immobilizer or cast to
prevent you from moving it. You will need to wear this for about 3 weeks.

Once you are no longer in a cast, physical therapy can help build back your
muscle strength and improve the knee's range of motion.

If there is damage to the bone and cartilage, or if the kneecap continues to
be unstable, you may need surgery to stabilize the kneecap. This may be done
using arthroscopic or open surgery.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you injure your knee and have symptoms of dislocation.

Call your provider if you are being treated for a dislocated knee and you
notice:

      * Increased instability in your knee
      * Pain or swelling return after they went away
      * Your injury does not appear to be getting better with time

Also call your provider if you re-injure your knee.

## Prevention

Use proper techniques when exercising or playing sports. Keep your knees
strong and flexible.

Some cases of knee dislocation may not be preventable, especially if physical
factors make you more likely to dislocate your knee.

## Alternative Names

Dislocation - kneecap; Patellar dislocation or instability

## Images

      * ![Arthroscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1063t.jpg)Knee arthroscopy
      * ![Patellar dislocation](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9721t.jpg)Patellar dislocation
      * ![Knee arthroscopy - series - Normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/12686t.jpg)Knee arthroscopy - series

## References

Mascioli AA. Acute dislocations. In: Azar F, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds.
_Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics._ 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 60.

Naples RM, Ufberg JW. Management of common dislocations. In: Roberts JR,
Custalow CB, Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in
Emergency Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 49. Â

Sherman SL, Hinckel BB, Farr J. Patellar instability. In: Miller MD, Thompson
SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 5th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 105.  

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Dislocations](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dislocations_thumb.jpg)Dislocations
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

