Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001415.htm    
                                Description: Encephalitis is irritation and swelling (inflammation) of the brain, most often due to infections.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Encephalitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001415.htm

# Encephalitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Encephalitis is irritation and swelling (inflammation) of the brain, most
often due to infections.

## Causes

Encephalitis is a rare condition. It occurs more often in the first year of
life and decreases with age. The very young and older adults are more likely
to have a severe case.

Encephalitis is most often caused by a virus. Many types of viruses may cause
it. Exposure can occur through:

      * Breathing in droplets from the nose, mouth, or throat from an infected person
      * Contaminated food or drink 
      * Mosquito, tick, and other insect bites 
      * Skin contact 

Different viruses occur in different locations. Many cases occur during a
certain season.

Encephalitis caused by the herpes simplex virus is the leading cause of more
severe cases in all ages, including newborns.

Routine vaccination has greatly reduced encephalitis due to some viruses,
including:

      * Measles
      * Mumps
      * Polio
      * Rabies
      * Rubella
      * Varicella (chickenpox) 

Other viruses that cause encephalitis include:

      * Adenovirus 
      * Coxsackievirus 
      * Cytomegalovirus
      * Eastern equine encephalitis virus 
      * Echovirus 
      * Japanese encephalitis, which occurs in Asia 
      * West Nile virus

After the virus enters the body, the brain tissue swells. This swelling may
destroy nerve cells, and cause bleeding in the brain and brain damage.

Other causes of encephalitis may include:

      * An allergic reaction to vaccinations 
      * Autoimmune disease 
      * Bacteria such as Lyme disease, syphilis, and tuberculosis 
      * Parasites such as roundworms, cysticercosis, and toxoplasmosis in people with HIV/AIDS and other people who have a weakened immune system 
      * The effects of cancer 

## Symptoms

Some people may have symptoms of a cold or stomach infection before
encephalitis symptoms begin.

When this infection is not very severe, the symptoms may be similar to those
of other illnesses:

      * Fever that is not very high
      * Mild headache
      * Low energy and a poor appetite

Other symptoms include:

      * Clumsiness, unsteady gait 
      * Confusion, disorientation
      * Drowsiness 
      * Irritability or poor temper control
      * Light sensitivity
      * Stiff neck and back (sometimes)
      * Vomiting 

Symptoms in newborns and younger infants may not be as easy to recognize:

      * Body stiffness
      * Irritability and crying more often (these symptoms may get worse when the baby is picked up)
      * Poor feeding
      * Soft spot on the top of the head may bulge out more
      * Vomiting

Emergency symptoms:

      * Loss of consciousness, poor responsiveness, stupor, coma
      * Muscle weakness or paralysis 
      * Seizures
      * Severe headache
      * Sudden change in mental functions, such as flat mood, impaired judgment, memory loss, or a lack of interest in daily activities 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about symptoms.

Tests that may be done include:

      * Brain MRI
      * CT scan of the head
      * Single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT)
      * Culture of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), blood, or urine (however, this test is rarely useful)
      * Electroencephalogram (EEG)
      * Lumbar puncture and CSF examination
      * Tests that detect antibodies to a virus (serology tests)
      * Test that detects tiny amounts of virus DNA (polymerase chain reaction -- PCR)

## Treatment

The goals of treatment are to provide supportive care (rest, nutrition,
fluids) to help the body fight the infection, and to relieve symptoms.

Medicines may include:

      * Antiviral medicines, if a virus caused the infection 
      * Antibiotics, if bacteria is the cause 
      * Antiseizure medicines to prevent seizures 
      * Steroids to reduce brain swelling 
      * Sedatives for irritability or restlessness 
      * Acetaminophen for fever and headache 

If brain function is severely affected, physical therapy and speech therapy
may be needed after the infection is controlled.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome varies. Some cases are mild and short, and the person fully
recovers. Other cases are severe, and permanent problems or death is possible.

The acute phase normally lasts for 1Â to 2 weeks. Fever and symptoms gradually
or suddenly disappear. Some people may take several months to fully recover.

## Possible Complications

Permanent brain damage may occur in severe cases of encephalitis. It can
affect:

      * Hearing
      * Memory
      * Muscle control
      * Sensation
      * Speech
      * Vision 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you have:

      * Sudden fever
      * Other symptoms of encephalitis

## Prevention

Children and adults should avoid contact with anyone who has encephalitis.

Controlling mosquitoes (a mosquito bite can transmit some viruses) may reduce
the chance of some infections that can lead to encephalitis.

      * Apply an insect repellant containing the chemical, DEET when you go outside (but DO NOT use DEET products on infants younger than 2 months).
      * Remove any sources of standing water (such as old tires, cans, gutters, and wading pools).
      * Wear long-sleeved shirts and pants when outside, especially at dusk.

Children and adults should get routine vaccinations for viruses that can cause
encephalitis. People should receive specific vaccines if they are traveling to
places such as parts of Asia, where Japanese encephalitis is found.

Vaccinate animals to prevent encephalitis caused by the rabies virus.

## Patient Instructions

      * Ventriculoperitoneal shunt - discharge

## References

Bloch KC, Glaser CA, Tunkel AR. Encephalitis and myelitis. In: Cohen J,
Powderly WG, Opal SM, eds. _Infectious Diseases_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 20.

Bronstein DE, Glaser CA. Encephalitis and meningoencephalitis. In: Cherry JD,
Harrison GJ, Kaplan SL, Steinbach WJ, Hotez PJ, eds. _Feigin and Cherry's
Textbook of Pediatric Infectious Diseases_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 36.

Lissauer T, Carroll W. Infection and immunity. In: Lissauer T, Carroll W, eds.
_Illustrated Textbook of Paediatrics_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 15.

## Review Date 8/5/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Encephalitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Encephalitis_thumb.jpg)Encephalitis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

