Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001056.htm    
                                Description: Gingivitis is inflammation of the gums.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gingivitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001056.htm

# Gingivitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Gingivitis is inflammation of the gums.

## Causes

Gingivitis is an early form of periodontal disease. Periodontal disease is
inflammation and infection that destroys the tissues that support the teeth.
This can include the gums, the periodontal ligaments, and bone.

Gingivitis is due to the short-term effects of plaque deposits on your teeth.
Plaque is a sticky material made of bacteria, mucus, and food debris that
build up on the exposed parts of the teeth. It is also a major cause of tooth
decay.

If you do not remove plaque, it turns into a hard deposit called tartar (or
calculus) that becomes trapped at the base of the tooth. Plaque and tartar
irritate and inflame the gums. Bacteria and the toxins they produce cause the
gums to become swollen, and tender.

These things raise your risk for gingivitis:

      * Certain infections and body-wide (systemic) diseases
      * Poor dental hygiene
      * Pregnancy (hormonal changes increase the sensitivity of the gums)
      * Uncontrolled diabetes
      * Misaligned teeth, rough edges of fillings, and ill-fitting or unclean mouth appliances (such as braces, dentures, bridges, and crowns)
      * Use of certain medicines, including phenytoin, bismuth, and some birth control pills

Many people have some amount of gingivitis. It often develops during puberty
or early adulthood because of hormonal changes. It may last a long time or
come back often, depending on the health of your teeth and gums.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of gingivitis include:

      * Bleeding gums (when brushing or flossing)
      * Bright red or reddish-purple gums
      * Gums that are tender when touched, but otherwise painless
      * Mouth sores
      * Swollen gums
      * Shiny appearance to gums

## Exams and Tests

Your dentist will examine your mouth and teeth and look for soft, swollen,
reddish-purple gums.

The gums are most often painless or mildly tender when gingivitis is present.

Plaque and tartar may be seen at the base of the teeth.

Your dentist will use a probe to closely examine your gums to determine if you
have gingivitis or periodontitis. Periodontitis is an advanced form of
gingivitis that involves bone loss.

Most of the time, more tests are not needed. However, dental x-rays may be
done to see if the disease has spread to the supporting structures of the
teeth.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to reduce inflammationÂ and remove dental plaque or
tartar.

Your dentist or dental hygienist will clean your teeth. They may use different
tools to loosen and remove deposits from your teeth.

Careful oral hygiene is necessary after professional teeth cleaning. Your
dentist or hygienist will show you how to brush and floss properly.

In addition to brushing and flossing at home, your dentist may recommend:

      * Having professional teeth cleaning twice a year, or more often for worse cases of gum disease
      * Using antibacterial mouth rinses or other aids
      * Getting misaligned teeth repaired
      * Replacing dental and orthodontic appliances
      * Having any other related illnesses or conditions treated

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Some people have discomfort when plaque and tartar are removed from their
teeth. Bleeding and tenderness of the gums should lessen within 1 or 2 weeks
after professional cleaning and with good oral care at home.

Warm salt water or antibacterial rinses can reduce gum swelling. Over-the-
counter anti-inflammatory medicines may also be helpful.

You must maintain good oral care throughout your life to keep gum disease from
returning.

## Possible Complications

These complications can occur:

      * Gingivitis returns
      * Periodontitis
      * Infection or abscess of the gums or the jaw bones
      * Trench mouth

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your dentist if you have red, swollen gums, especially if you have not
had a routine cleaning and exam in the last 6 months.

## Prevention

Good oral hygiene is the best way to prevent gingivitis.

Brush your teeth at least twice a day. Floss at least once a day.

Your dentist may recommend brushing and flossing after every meal and at
bedtime. Ask your dentist or dental hygienist to show you how to properly
brush and floss your teeth.

Your dentist may suggest devices to help remove plaque deposits. These include
special toothpicks, toothbrushes, water irrigation, or other devices. You
still must brush and floss your teeth regularly.

Antiplaque or antitartar toothpastes or mouth rinses may also be recommended.

Many dentists recommend having teeth professionally cleaned at least every 6
months. You may need more frequent cleanings if you are more prone to
developing gingivitis. You may not be able to remove all the plaque, even with
careful brushing and flossing at home.

## Alternative Names

Gum disease; Periodontal disease

## Images

      * ![Tooth anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1121t.jpg)Tooth anatomy
      * ![Gingivitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1136t.jpg)Gingivitis
      * ![Gingivitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9348t.jpg)Gingivitis

## References

Chow AW. Infections of the oral cavity, neck, and head. In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 65.

John V, Weddell JA, Shin DE, Jones JE. Gingivitis and periodontal disease. In:
Dean JA, ed. _McDonald and Avery's Dentistry of the Child and Adolescent_.
10th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2016:chap 14.

Pedigo RA, Amsterdam JT. Oral medicine. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 60.

## Review Date 2/5/2018

Updated by: Ilona Fotek, DMD, MS, Dental Healing Arts, Jupiter, FL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Gum Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GumDisease_thumb.jpg)Gum Disease
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

