Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001044.htm    
                                Description: Trench mouth is an infection that causes swelling (inflammation) and ulcers in the gums (gingivae). The term trench mouth comes from World War I, when this infection was common among soldiers &quot;in the trenches.&quot;    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Trench mouth

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001044.htm

# Trench mouth

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Trench mouth is an infection that causes swelling (inflammation) and ulcers in
the gums (gingivae). The term trench mouth comes from World War I, when this
infection was common among soldiers "in the trenches."

## Causes

Trench mouth is a painful form of gum swelling (gingivitis). The mouth
normally contains a balance of different bacteria. Trench mouth occurs when
there is too much pathologic bacteria. The gums become infected and develop
painful ulcers. Viruses may be involved in allowing the bacteria to grow too
much.

Things that increase your risk of trench mouth include:

      * Emotional stress (such as studying for exams)
      * Poor oral hygiene
      * Poor nutrition
      * Smoking
      * Throat, tooth, or mouth infections 

Trench mouth is rare. When it does occur, it most often affects people ages 15
to 35.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of trench mouth often begin suddenly. They include:

      * Bad breath
      * Crater-like ulcers between the teeth
      * Fever
      * Foul taste in the mouth
      * Gums appear red and swollen
      * Grayish film on the gums
      * Painful gums
      * Severe gum bleeding in response to any pressure or irritation

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will look into your mouth for signs of trench mouth,
including:

      * Crater-like ulcers filled with plaque and food debris
      * Destruction of gum tissue around the teeth
      * Inflamed gums 

There may be a gray film caused by broken down gum tissue. In some cases,
there may be fever and swollen lymph nodes of the head and neck.

Dental x-rays or x-rays of the face may be taken to determine how severe the
infection is and how much tissue has been destroyed.

This disease may also be tested for by using a throat swab culture.

## Treatment

The goals of treatment are to cure the infection and relieve symptoms. Your
health care provider may prescribe antibiotics if you have a fever.

Good oral hygiene is vital to the treatment of trench mouth. Brush and floss
your teeth thoroughly at least twice a day, or after each meal and at bedtime,
if possible.

Salt-water rinses (one half teaspoon or 3 grams of salt in 1 cup or 240
milliliters of water) may soothe sore gums. Hydrogen peroxide, used to rinse
the gums, is often recommended to remove dead or dying gum tissue.
Chlorhexidine rinse will help with gum inflammation.

Over-the-counter pain relievers may reduce your discomfort. Soothing rinses or
coating agents may reduce pain, especially before eating. You may apply
lidocaine to your gums for severe pain.

You may be asked to visit a dentist or dental hygienist to have your teeth
professionally cleaned and to have the plaque removed, once your gums feel
less tender. You may need to get numb for the cleaning. You may need frequent
dental cleaning and examinations until the disorder is cleared.

To prevent the condition from coming back, your provider may give you
instructions on how to:

      * Maintain good general health, including proper nutrition and exercise
      * Maintain good oral hygiene
      * Reduce stress
      * Stop smoking

Avoid irritants such as smoking and hot or spicy foods.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The infection usually responds to treatment. The disorder can be quite painful
until it is treated. If trench mouth is not treated promptly, the infection
can spread to the cheeks, lips, or jawbone. It can destroy these tissues.

## Possible Complications

Complications of trench mouth include:

      * Dehydration
      * Weight loss
      * Loss of teeth
      * Pain
      * Periodontitis
      * Spread of infection

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact a dentist if you have symptoms of trench mouth, or if fever or other
new symptoms develop.

## Prevention

Preventive measures include:

      * Good general health
      * Good nutrition
      * Good oral hygiene, including thorough tooth brushing and flossing
      * Learning ways to cope with stress
      * Regular professional dental cleaning and exams
      * Stopping smoking

## Alternative Names

Vincent's stomatitis; Acute necrotizing ulcerative gingivitis (ANUG)

## Images

      * ![Dental anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9445t.jpg)Dental anatomy
      * ![Mouth anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8880t.jpg)Mouth anatomy

## References

Chow AW. Infections of the oral cavity, neck, and head. In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 65.

Hupp WS. Diseases of the mouth. In: Kellerman RD, Bope ET, eds. _Conn's
Current Therapy 2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018;949-954.

James WD, Berger TG, Elston DM. Disorders of the mucous membranes. In: James
WD, Berger TG, Elston DM, eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin: Clinical
Dermatology_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 34.

Martin B, Baumhardt H, DâAlesio A, Woods K. Oral disorders. In: Zitelli, BJ,
McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical
Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 21.

## Review Date 2/5/2018

Updated by: Ilona Fotek, DMD, MS, Dental Healing Arts, Jupiter, FL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Gum Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GumDisease_thumb.jpg)Gum Disease
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

