Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001059.htm    
                                Description: Periodontitis is inflammation and infection of the ligaments and bones that support the teeth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Periodontitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001059.htm

# Periodontitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Periodontitis is inflammation and infection of the ligaments and bones that
support the teeth.

## Causes

Periodontitis occurs when inflammation or infection of the gums (gingivitis)
occurs and is not treated. Infection and inflammation spreads from the gums
(gingiva) to the ligaments and bone that support the teeth. Loss of support
causes the teeth to become loose and eventually fall out. Periodontitis is the
primary cause of tooth loss in adults. This disorder is uncommon in young
children, but it increases during the teen years.

Plaque and tartar build up at the base of the teeth. Inflammation from this
buildup causes an abnormal "pocket," or gap, to form between the gums and the
teeth. This pocket then fills with more plaque, tartar, and bacteria. Soft
tissue swelling traps the plaque in the pocket. Continued inflammation leads
to damage of the tissues and bone surrounding the tooth. Because plaque
contains bacteria, infection is likely, and a tooth abscess may also develop.
This also increases the rate of bone destruction.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of periodontitis include:

      * Bad breath odor (halitosis)
      * Gums that are bright red or reddish-purple
      * Gums that look shiny
      * Gums that bleed easily (when flossing or brushing)
      * Gums that are tender when touched but are painless otherwise
      * Loose teeth
      * Swollen gums
      * Gaps between the teeth and gums
      * Shifting teeth
      * Yellow, brown green or white hard deposits on your teeth
      * Tooth sensitivity

Note: Early symptoms are similar to gingivitis (inflammation of the gums).

## Exams and Tests

Your dentist will examine your mouth and teeth. Your gums will be soft,
swollen, and reddish-purple. (Healthy gums are pink and firm.) You may have
plaque and tartar at the base of your teeth, and the pockets in your gums may
be enlarged. In most cases, the gums are painless or only mildly tender,
unless a tooth abscess is also present. Your gums will be tender when checking
your pockets with a probe. Your teeth may be loose and gums may be pulled
back, exposing the base of your teeth.

Dental x-rays show the loss of supporting bone. They may also show plaque
deposits under your gums.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to reduce inflammation, remove pockets in your gums,
and treat any underlying causes of gum disease.

Rough surfaces of teeth or dental appliances should be repaired.

Have your teeth cleaned thoroughly. This may involve the use of various tools
to loosen and remove plaque and tartar from your teeth. Flossing and brushing
is always needed to reduce your risk for gum disease, even after professional
tooth cleaning. Your dentist or hygienist will show you how to brush and floss
properly. You may benefit from medicines that are put directly on your gums
and teeth. People with periodontitis should have a professional teeth cleaning
every 3 months.

Surgery may be needed to:

      * Open and clean deep pockets in your gums
      * Build support for loose teeth
      * Remove a tooth or teeth so that the problem doesn't get worse and spread to nearby teeth

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Some people find the removal of dental plaque from inflamed gums to be
uncomfortable. You may need to be numb during this process. Bleeding and
tenderness of the gums should go away within 3 to 4 weeks of treatment.

You need to perform careful home brushing and flossing for your entire life so
that the problem does not return.

## Possible Complications

These complications can occur:

      * Infection or abscess of the soft tissue
      * Infection of the jaw bones
      * Return of periodontitis
      * Tooth abscess
      * Tooth loss
      * Tooth flaring (sticking out) or shifting
      * Trench mouth

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See your dentist if you have signs of gum disease.

## Prevention

Good oral hygiene is the best way to prevent periodontitis. This includes
thorough tooth brushing and flossing, and regular professional dental
cleaning. Preventing and treating gingivitis reduces your risk of developing
periodontitis.

## Alternative Names

Pyorrhea - gum disease; Inflammation of gums - involving bone

## Images

      * ![Gingivitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1136t.jpg)Gingivitis
      * ![Gingivitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9348t.jpg)Gingivitis
      * ![Tooth anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8974t.jpg)Tooth anatomy

## References

Chow AW. Infections of the oral cavity, neck, and head. In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 65.

Dommisch H, Kebschull M. Chronic periodontitis. In: Newman MG, Takei HH,
Klokkevold PR, Carranza FA, eds. _Carranza's Clinical Periodontology_. 12th
ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 23.

Pedigo RA, Amsterdam JT. Oral medicine. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 60.

## Review Date 2/5/2018

Updated by: Ilona Fotek, DMD, MS, Dental Healing Arts, Jupiter, FL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Gum Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GumDisease_thumb.jpg)Gum Disease
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

