Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003066.htm    
                                Description: Swollen gums are abnormally enlarged, bulging, or protruding.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gums - swollen

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003066.htm

# Gums - swollen

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Swollen gums are abnormally enlarged, bulging, or protruding.

## Considerations

Gum swelling is common. It may involve one or many of the triangle-shaped
areas of gum between teeth. These sections are called papillae.

Occasionally, the gums swell enough to block the teeth completely.

## Causes

Swollen gums may be caused by:

      * Inflamed gums (gingivitis)
      * Infection by a virus or fungus
      * Malnutrition
      * Poorly fitting dentures or other dental appliances
      * Pregnancy
      * Sensitivity to toothpaste or mouthwash
      * Scurvy
      * Side effect of a medicine
      * Food debris

## Home Care

Eat a well-balanced diet that includes fruits and vegetables. Avoid sugary
foods and drinks.

Avoid foods such as popcorn and chips that can lodge under the gums and cause
swelling.

Avoid things that can irritate your gums such as mouthwashes, alcohol, and
tobacco. Change your toothpaste brand and stop using mouthwashes if
sensitivity to these dental products is causing your swollen gums.

Brush and floss your teeth regularly. See a periodontist or dentist at least
every 6 months.

If your swollen gums are caused by a reaction to a drug, talk to your health
care provider about changing the type of medicine you use. Never stop taking a
medicine without first talking to your provider.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if changes to your gums last longer than 2 weeks.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your dentist will examine your mouth, teeth, and gums. You will be asked
questions about your medical history and symptoms, such as:

      * Do your gums bleed?
      * How long has the problem been going on, and has it changed over time? 
      * How often do you brush your teeth and what kind of toothbrush do you use? 
      * Do you use any other oral care products?
      * When was the last time you had a professional cleaning?
      * Have there been any changes to your diet? Do you take vitamins?
      * What medicines do you take?
      * Have you changed your oral home care recently, such as type of toothpaste or mouthwash you use?
      * Do you have any other symptoms such as breath odor, sore throat, or pain?

You may have blood tests such as such as a CBC (complete blood count) or blood
differential.

Your dentist or hygienist will show you how to care for your teeth and gums.

## Alternative Names

Swollen gums; Gingival swelling

## Images

      * ![Tooth anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1121t.jpg)Tooth anatomy
      * ![Swollen gums](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9358t.jpg)Swollen gums

## References

Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW. Ear, nose, and throat.
In: Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW, eds. _Seidel's Guide
to Physical Examination_. 9th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2019:chap 13.

Chow AW. Infections of the oral cavity, neck, and head. In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 65.

John V, Weddell JA, Shin DE, Jones JE. Gingivitis and periodontal disease. In:
Dean JA, ed. _McDonald and Avery's Dentistry of the Child and Adolescent_.
10th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2016:chap 14.

Pedigo RA, Amsterdam JT. Oral medicine. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 60.

## Review Date 2/5/2018

Updated by: Ilona Fotek, DMD, MS, Dental Healing Arts, Jupiter, FL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Gum Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GumDisease_thumb.jpg)Gum Disease
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

