Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001052.htm    
                                Description: Gingivostomatitis is an infection of the mouth and gums that leads to swelling and sores. It may be due to a virus or bacteria.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gingivostomatitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001052.htm

# Gingivostomatitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Gingivostomatitis is an infection of the mouth and gums that leads to swelling
and sores. It may be due to a virus or bacteria.

## Causes

Gingivostomatitis is common among children. It may occur after infection with
the herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1), which also causes cold sores.

The condition may also occur after infection with a coxsackie virus.

It may occur in people with poor oral hygiene.

## Symptoms

The symptoms can be mild or severe and may include:

      * Bad breath
      * Fever
      * General discomfort, uneasiness, or ill feeling (malaise)
      * Sores on the inside of the cheeks or gums
      * Very sore mouth with no desire to eat

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will check your mouth for small ulcers. These sores
are similar to mouth ulcers caused by other conditions. Cough, fever, or
muscle aches may indicate other conditions.

Most of the time, no special tests are needed to diagnose gingivostomatitis.
However, the provider may take a small piece of tissue from the sore to check
for a viral or bacterial infection. This is called a culture. A biopsy may be
done to rule out other types of mouth ulcers.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to reduce symptoms.

Things you can do at home include:

      * Practice good oral hygiene. Brush your gums well to reduce the risk of getting another infection.
      * Use mouth rinses that reduce pain if your provider recommends them.
      * Rinse your mouth with salt water (one-half teaspoon or 3 grams of salt in 1 cup or 240 milliliters of water) or mouthwashes with hydrogen peroxide or Xylocaine to ease discomfort.
      * Eat a healthy diet. Soft, bland (non-spicy) foods may reduce discomfort during eating.

You may need to take antibiotics.

You may need to have the infected tissue removed by the dentist (called
debridement).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Gingivostomatitis infections range from mild to severe and painful. The sores
often get better in 2 or 3 weeks with or without treatment. Treatment may
reduce discomfort and speed healing.

## Possible Complications

Gingivostomatitis may disguise other, more serious mouth ulcers.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You have mouth sores and fever or other signs of illness
      * Mouth sores get worse or do not respond to treatment within 3 weeks
      * You develop swelling in the mouth

## Images

      * ![Gingivitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1136t.jpg)Gingivitis
      * ![Gingivitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9348t.jpg)Gingivitis

## References

Christian JM, Goddard AC, Gillespie MB. Deep neck and odontogenic infections.
In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head
and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 10.

Romero JR, Modlin JF. Coxsackieviruses, echoviruses, and numbered
enteroviruses (EV-D68). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell,
Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated
Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 174.

Schiffer JT, Corey L. Herpes simplex virus. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser
MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 138.

Shaw J. Infections of the oral cavity. In: Long SS, Prober CG, Fischer M, eds.
_Principles and Practice of Pediatric Infectious Diseases_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 25.

## Review Date 2/27/2019

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Gum Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GumDisease_thumb.jpg)Gum Disease
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

