Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001396.htm    
                                Description: A branchial cleft cyst is a birth defect. It is a space left in the neck when a baby develops in the womb. After the baby is born, it appears as a lump in the neck or just below the jawbone.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Branchial cleft cyst

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001396.htm

# Branchial cleft cyst

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A branchial cleft cyst is a birth defect. It is a space left in the neck when
a baby develops in the womb. After the baby is born, it appears as a lump in
the neck or just below the jawbone.

## Causes

Branchial cleft cysts form during development of the embryo. They occur when
tissues in the neck area (branchial cleft) fail to develop normally.

The birth defect may appear as open spaces called cleft sinuses, which may
develop on one or both sides of the neck. A branchial cleft cyst may form from
fluid drained from a sinus. The cyst or sinus can become infected.

## Symptoms

The cysts are most often seen in children. In some cases, they are not seen
until adulthood.

Symptoms may include any of the following:

      * Small pits, lumps, or skin tags at either side of the neck or just below the jawbone
      * Fluid drainage from a pit on the neck
      * Noisy breathingÂ (if the cyst is large enough to block part of the airway)

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider may be able to diagnose this condition during a
physical examination. The following tests may be done:

      * CT scan
      * MRI scan
      * Ultrasound

## Treatment

Antibiotics will be given if the cyst or sinuses are infected.

Surgery is generally needed to remove a branchial cyst to prevent
complications such as infections. If there is an infection when the cyst is
found, surgery will likely be done after the infection has been treated with
antibiotics. If there have been several infections before the cyst is found,
it may be harder to remove.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Surgery is usually successful, with good results.

## Possible Complications

The cyst or sinuses may become infected if not removed, and repeat infections
may make surgical removal more difficult.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if you notice a small pit, cleft,
or lump in your child's neck or upper shoulder, especially if fluid drains
from this area.

## Alternative Names

Cleft sinus

## References

Loveless TP, Altay MA, Wang Z, Baur DA. Management of branchial cleft cysts,
sinuses, and fistulae. In: Kademani D, Tiwana PS, eds. _Atlas of Oral and
Maxillofacial Surgery_. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 92.

Rizzi MD, Wetmore RF, Potsic WP. Differential diagnosis of neck masses. In:
Lesperance MM, Flint PW, eds. _Cummings Pediatric Otolaryngology_.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 19.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Kimberly G. Lee, MD, MSc, IBCLC, Associate Professor of
Pediatrics, Division of Neonatology, Medical University of South Carolina,
Charleston, SC. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Neck Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NeckInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Neck
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

