Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003025.htm    
                                Description: Neck pain is discomfort in any of the structures in the neck. These include the muscles, nerves, bones (vertebrae), joints, and the discs between the bones.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Neck pain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003025.htm

# Neck pain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Neck pain is discomfort in any of the structures in the neck. These include
the muscles, nerves, bones (vertebrae), joints, and the discs between the
bones.

## Considerations

When your neck is sore, you may have difficulty moving it, suchÂ as turning to
one side. Many people describe this as having a stiff neck.

If neck pain involves compression of your nerves, you may feel numbness,
tingling, or weakness in your arm or hand.

## Causes

A common cause of neck pain is muscle strain or tension. Most often, everyday
activities are to blame. Such activities include:

      * Bending over a desk for hours
      * Having poor posture while watching TV or reading
      * Having your computer monitor positioned too high or too low
      * Sleeping in an uncomfortable position
      * Twisting and turning your neck in a jarring manner while exercising 
      * Lifting things too quickly or with poor posture

Accidents or falls can cause severe neck injuries, such as vertebral
fractures, whiplash, blood vessel injury, and even paralysis.

Other causes include:

      * Medical conditions, such as fibromyalgia
      * Cervical arthritis or spondylosis
      * Ruptured disk
      * Small fractures to the spine from osteoporosis
      * Spinal stenosis (narrowing of the spinal canal)
      * Sprains
      * Infection of the spine (osteomyelitis, discitis, abscess)
      * Torticollis
      * Cancer that involves the spine 

## Home Care

Treatment and self-care for your neck pain depend on the cause of the pain.
You will need to learn:

      * How to relieve the pain
      * What your activity level should be
      * What medicines you can take

For minor, common causes of neck pain:

      * Take over-the-counter pain relievers such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB) or acetaminophen (Tylenol).
      * Apply heat or ice to the painful area. Use ice for the first 48 to 72 hours, and then use heat after that.
      * Apply heat with warm showers, hot compresses, or a heating pad. To prevent injury to your skin, DO NOT fall asleep with a heating pad or ice bag in place.
      * Stop normal physical activity for the first few days. This helps calm your symptoms and reduce inflammation.
      * Do slow range-of-motion exercises, up and down, side to side, and from ear to ear. This helps gently stretch the neck muscles.
      * Have a partner gently massage the sore or painful areas.
      * Try sleeping on a firm mattress with a pillow that supports your neck. You may want to get a special neck pillow.
      * Ask your health care provider about using a soft neck collar to relieve discomfort. However, using collar for a long time can weaken neck muscles. Take it off from time to time to allow the muscles to get stronger. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Seek medical help right away if you have:

      * A fever and headache, and your neck is so stiff that you cannot touch your chin to your chest. This may be meningitis. Call your local emergency number (such as 911) or get to a hospital.
      * Symptoms of a heart attack, such as shortness of breath, sweating, nausea, vomiting, or arm or jaw pain. 

Call your provider if:

      * Symptoms do not go away in 1 week with self-care
      * You have numbness, tingling, or weakness in your arm or hand
      * Your neck pain was caused by a fall, blow, or injury -- if you cannot move your arm or hand, have someone call 911
      * You have swollen glands or a lump in your neck
      * Your pain does not go away with regular doses of over-the-counter pain medicine
      * You have difficulty swallowing or breathing along with the neck pain
      * The pain gets worse when you lie down or wakes you up at night
      * Your pain is so severe that you cannot get comfortable
      * You lose control over urination or bowel movements
      * You have trouble walking and balancing 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your neck pain,
including how often it occurs and how much it hurts.

Your provider will probably not order any tests during the first visit. Tests
are only done if you have symptoms or a medical history that suggests a tumor,
infection, fracture, or serious nerve disorder. In that case, the following
tests may be done:

      * X-rays of the neck
      * CT scan of the neck or head
      * Blood tests such as a complete blood count (CBC)
      * MRI of the neck 

If the pain is due to muscle spasm or a pinched nerve, your provider may
prescribe a muscle relaxant or a more powerful pain reliever. Over-the-counter
medicines often work as well as prescription drugs. At times, your provider
may give you steroids to reduce swelling. If there is nerve damage, your
provider may refer you to a neurologist, neurosurgeon, or orthopedic surgeon
for consultation.

## Alternative Names

Pain - neck; Neck stiffness; Cervicalgia; Whiplash; Stiff neck

## Patient Instructions

      * Spine surgery - discharge

## Images

      * ![Neck pain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19579t.jpg)Neck pain
      * ![Whiplash](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9853t.jpg)Whiplash
      * ![Location of whiplash pain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19581t.jpg)Location of whiplash pain

## References

Cheng JS, Vasquez-Castellanos R, Wong C. Neck pain. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC,
Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelly and Firestein's Textbook of
Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 45.

Cohen SP. Epidemiology, diagnosis, and treatment of neck pain. _Mayo Clin
Proc_. 2015;90(2):284-299. PMID: 25659245
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25659245.

Najera LV, Alleva JT, Mohr N, Origenes AK, Hudgins TH. Cervical sprain or
strain. In: Frontera WR, Silver JK, Rizzo TD, eds. _Essentials of Physical
Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 6.

Ronthal M. Arm and neck pain. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy
SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 31.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Guide to Good
Posture](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GuidetoGoodPosture_Thumb.jpg)Guide to
Good Posture _Read more_

![Neck Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NeckInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Neck
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

