Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ebola.html    
                                Description: Ebola is a deadly disease caused by a virus. There is no known cure. Learn about the symptoms, risk factors, and latest news.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Ebola

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/ebola.html

#  Ebola

Also called: Ebola hemorrhagic fever, Ebola virus disease

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Symptoms
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Related Issues

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Ebola hemorrhagic fever is caused by a virus. It is a severe and often fatal
disease. It can affect humans and other primates. Researchers believe that the
virus first spreads from an infected animal to a human. It can then spread
from human to human through direct contact with a patient's blood or
secretions.

Symptoms of Ebola may appear anywhere from 2 to 21 days after exposure to the
virus. Symptoms usually include

    * Fever
    * Headache
    * Joint and muscle aches
    * Weakness
    * Diarrhea
    * Vomiting
    * Stomach pain
    * Lack of appetite

Other symptoms including rash, red eyes, and internal and external bleeding,
may also occur.

The early symptoms of Ebola are similar to other, more common, diseases. This
makes it difficult to diagnose Ebola in someone who has been infected for only
a few days. However, if a person has the early symptoms of Ebola and there is
reason to suspect Ebola, the patient should be isolated. It is also important
to notify public health professionals. Lab tests can confirm whether the
patient has Ebola.

There is no cure for Ebola. Treatment involves supportive care such as fluids,
oxygen, and treatment of complications. Some people who get Ebola are able to
recover, but many do not.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Start Here

    * Ebola (Ebola Virus Disease) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Ebola (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)
    * Ebola Virus and Marburg Virus (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Ebola Virus Disease (World Health Organization) Also in Spanish
    * Frequently Asked Questions on Ebola Virus Disease (World Health Organization) Also in Spanish

## Symptoms

    * Ebola (Ebola Virus Disease): Signs and Symptoms (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Ebola (Ebola Virus Disease): Diagnosis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Ebola (Ebola Virus Disease): Prevention (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Ebola (Ebola Virus Disease): Treatment (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Related Issues

    * Ebola (Ebola Virus Disease): Q&As on Transmission (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Ebola (Ebola Virus Disease): Transmission (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Facts about Ebola ![Infographic](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Infographic.gif) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF
    * Questions and Answers about Ebola, Pets, and Other Animals (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Questions and Answers: 2014 Ebola Outbreak (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Travel to and from Ebola-Affected Countries Is Low-Risk: Here Is What You Need to Know ![Infographic](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Infographic.gif) (World Health Organization)

## Statistics and Research

    * 2014 Ebola Outbreak in West Africa (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Ebola/Marburg ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Ebola Vaccines ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Ebolavirus ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hemorrhagic Fever, Ebola ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Engineered Human Cathelicidin Antimicrobial Peptides Inhibit Ebola Virus Infection.
    * Article: A Vaccine against Ebola Virus.
    * Article: Increased talin-vinculin spatial proximities in livers in response to spotted fever...
    * Ebola -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
    * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Patient Handouts

    * Ebola virus disease (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Ebola](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EbolaandHemorrhagicFevers.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Ebola virus disease

## Related Health Topics

    * Hemorrhagic Fevers

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Ebola is the National Institute
of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 14 May 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

