Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000221.htm    
                                Description: Pancreatitis is swelling of the pancreas. Chronic pancreatitis is present when this problem does not heal or improve, gets worse over time, and leads to permanent damage.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chronic pancreatitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000221.htm

# Chronic pancreatitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pancreatitis is swelling of the pancreas. Chronic pancreatitis is present when
this problem does not heal or improve, gets worse over time, and leads to
permanent damage.

## Causes

The pancreas is an organ located behind the stomach. It produces chemicals
(called enzymes) needed to digest food. It also produces the hormones insulin
and glucagon.

When scarring of the pancreas occurs, the organ is no longer able to make the
right amount of these enzymes. As a result, your body may be unable to digest
fat and key elements of food.

Damage to the parts of the pancreas that make insulin may lead to diabetes
mellitus.

The condition is most often caused by alcohol abuse over many years. Repeated
episodes of acute pancreatitis can lead to chronic pancreatitis. Genetics may
be a factor in some cases. Sometimes, the cause is not known or caused by gall
stones.

Other conditions that have been linked to chronic pancreatitis:

      * Problems when the immune system attacks the body
      * Blockage of the tubes (ducts) that drain enzymes from the pancreas 
      * Cystic fibrosis
      * High levels of a fat, called triglycerides, in the blood 
      * Overactive parathyroid gland
      * Use of certain medicines (especially sulfonamides, thiazides, and azathioprine)
      * Pancreatitis that is passed down in families (hereditary)

Chronic pancreatitis is more common in men than in women. This often occurs in
people ages 30 to 40.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

ABDOMINAL PAIN

      * Greatest in the upper abdomen
      * May last from hours to days; over time, may always be present
      * May get worse from eating
      * May get worse from drinking alcohol
      * May also be felt in the backÂ as if it is boring through the abdomen

DIGESTIVE PROBLEMS

      * Chronic weight loss, even when eating habits and amounts are normal
      * Diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting
      * Foul-smelling fatty or oily stools
      * Pale or orange-colored stools

## Exams and Tests

Tests to diagnose pancreatitis include:

      * Fecal fat test
      * Increased serum amylase level
      * Increased serum lipase level
      * Serum trypsinogen

Tests that may show the cause of pancreatitis include:

      * Serum IgG4 (for diagnosing autoimmune pancreatitis)
      * Gene testing, most often done when other common causes are not present or there is a family history

Imaging tests that can show swelling, scarring, or other changes of the
pancreas may be seen on:

      * CT scan of the abdomen
      * Ultrasound of the abdomen
      * Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS)
      * Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP)
      * Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP)

ERCPÂ is a procedure that looks at your bile and pancreatic ducts. It is done
through an endoscope.

## Treatment

People with severe pain or who are losing weight may need to stay in the
hospital for:

      * Pain medicines.
      * Fluids given through a vein (IV).
      * Stopping food or fluid by mouth to limit the activity of the pancreas, and then slowly starting an oral diet.
      * Inserting a tube through the nose or mouth to remove the contents of the stomach (nasogastric suctioning) may sometimes be done. The tube may stay in for 1 to 2 days, or sometimes for 1 to 2 weeks. 

The right diet is important for people with chronic pancreatitis to keep a
healthy weight and get the correct nutrients. A nutritionist can help you
create a diet that includes:

      * Drinking plenty of liquids
      * Limiting fats
      * Eating small, frequent meals (this helps reduce digestive symptoms)
      * Getting enough vitamins and calcium in the diet, or as extra supplements
      * Limiting caffeine 

The health care provider may prescribe pancreatic enzymes. You must take these
medicines with every meal, and even with snacks. The enzymes will help you
digest food better, gain weight and reduce diarrhea.

Avoid smoking and drinking alcoholic beverages, even if your pancreatitis is
mild.

Other treatments may involve:

      * Pain medicines or a surgical nerve block to relieve pain
      * Taking insulin to control blood sugar (glucose) level 

Surgery may be performed if a blockage is found. In severe cases, a part or
all of the pancreas may be removed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

This is a serious disease that may lead to disability and death. You can
reduce the risk by avoiding alcohol.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Ascites
      * Blockage (obstruction) of the small intestine or bile ducts
      * Blood clot in the vein of the spleen
      * Fluid collections in the pancreas (pancreatic pseudocysts) that may become infected
      * Diabetes 
      * Poor absorptionÂ of fat, nutrients, and vitamins (most often the fat-soluble vitamins, A, D, E, or K) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You develop symptoms of pancreatitis
      * You have pancreatitis, and your symptoms get worse or do not improve with treatment

## Prevention

Finding the cause of acute pancreatitis and treating it quickly may help
prevent chronic pancreatitis. Limit the amount of alcohol you drink to reduce
your risk of developing this condition.

## Alternative Names

Chronic pancreatitis - chronic; Pancreatitis - chronic - discharge; Pancreatic
insufficiency - chronic; Acute pancreatitis - chronic

## Patient Instructions

      * Pancreatitis - discharge

## Images

      * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
      * ![Pancreatitis, chronic - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1157t.jpg)Pancreatitis, chronic - CT scan

## References

Forsmark CE. Chronic pancreatitis. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 59.

Forsmark CE. Pancreatitis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 144.

Paniccia A, Edil BH. The management of chronic pancreatitis. In: Cameron JL,
Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017: 532-538.

## Review Date 9/28/2017

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pancreatitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pancreatitis_thumb.jpg)Pancreatitis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

