Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000201.htm    
                                Description: You were in the hospital because you have pancreatitis. This is a swelling (Inflammation) of the pancreas. This article tells you what you need to know to take care of yourself after you go home from the    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pancreatitis - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000201.htm

# Pancreatitis - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You were in the hospital because you have pancreatitis. This is a swelling
(Inflammation) of the pancreas. This article tells you what you need to know
to take care of yourself after you go home from the hospital.

## When You're in the Hospital

During your stay in the hospital, you may have had blood tests and imaging
exams, such as a CT scan or ultrasound. You may have been given medicines to
help your pain or fight and prevent infections. You may have been given fluids
through an intravenous (IV) tube in your vein and nutrition through a feeding
tube or IV. You may have had a tube inserted through your nose that helped
remove the contents of your stomach.

If your pancreatitis was caused by gallstones or a blocked duct, you may have
had surgery. Your health care provider may also have drained a cyst
(collection of fluid) in your pancreas.

## Self-care

After an episode of pain from pancreatitis, you should start off with drinking
only clear liquids, such as soup broth or gelatin. You will need to follow
this diet until your symptoms get better. Slowly add other foods back to your
diet when you are better.

Talk with your provider about:

      * Eating a healthy diet that is low in fat, with no more than 30 grams of fat per day
      * Eating foods that are high in protein and carbohydrates, but low in fat. Eat smaller meals, and eat more often. Your provider will help make sure you are getting enough calories to not lose weight.
      * Quitting smoking or using other tobacco products, if you use these substances.
      * Losing weight, if you are overweight. 

Always talk to your provider before taking any medicines or herbs.

DO NOT drink any alcohol.

If your body can no longer absorb fats that you eat, your provider may ask you
to take extra capsules, called pancreatic enzymes. These will help your body
absorb fats in your food better.

      * You will need to take these pills with every meal. Your provider will tell you how many.
      * When you take these enzymes, you may also need to take another medicine to decrease the acid in your stomach. 

If your pancreas has a lot of damage, you may also develop diabetes. You will
be checked for this problem.

## Managing Your Pain

Avoiding alcohol, tobacco, and foods that make your symptoms worse is the
first step to controlling pain.

Use acetaminophen (Tylenol) or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, such as
ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), at first to try and control your pain.

You will get a prescription for pain medicines. Get it filled when you go home
so you have it available. If the pain is getting worse, take your pain
medicine to help before the pain becomes very bad.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have:

      * Very bad pain that is not relieved by over-the-counter drugs
      * Problems eating, drinking, or taking your drugs because of nausea or vomiting
      * Problems breathing or a very fast heartbeat
      * Pain with fever, chills, frequent vomiting, or with feeling faint, weak, or tired
      * Weight loss or problems digesting your food
      * Yellow color to your skin and the whites of your eyes (jaundice) 

## Alternative Names

Chronic pancreatitis - discharge; Pancreatitis - chronic - discharge;
Pancreatic insufficiency - discharge; Acute pancreatitis - discharge

## References

Forsmark CE. Pancreatitis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 144.

Tenner S, Baillie J, DeWitt J, Vege SS; American College of Gastroenterology.
American College of Gastroenterology guideline: management of acute
pancreatitis. _Am J Gastroenterol_. 2013;108(9):1400-1415. PMID: 23896955
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23896955.

Tenner S, Steinberg WM. Acute pancreatitis. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt
LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 58.

Van Buren G, Fisher WE. Acute and chronic pancreatitis. In: Kellerman RD,
Rakel DP, eds. _Conn's Current Therapy 2019_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 163-170.

## Read More

      * Acute pancreatitis
      * Alcohol use disorder
      * Chronic pancreatitis

## Patient Instructions

      * Bland diet
      * Clear liquid diet
      * Enteral nutrition - child - managing problems
      * Full liquid diet
      * Gallstones - discharge
      * Gastrostomy feeding tube - bolus
      * Jejunostomy feeding tube 

## Review Date 11/1/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Pancreatitis

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

