Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007679.htm    
                                Description: Pancreatitis in children occurs when the pancreas becomes swollen and inflamed.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pancreatitis - children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007679.htm

# Pancreatitis - children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pancreatitis in children occurs when the pancreas becomes swollen and
inflamed.

## Causes

The pancreas is an organ behind the stomach.

It produces chemicals called enzymes, which are needed to digest food. Most of
the time, the enzymes are only active after they reach the small intestine.

When these enzymes become active inside the pancreas, they digest the tissue
of the pancreas. This causes swelling, bleedingÂ and damage to the organ and
its blood vessels. This condition is called pancreatitis.

Common causes of pancreatitis in children include:

      * Trauma to the belly, such as from a bicycle handle bar injury
      * Blocked bile duct 
      * Side effectsÂ of medicine, such as anti-seizure medicines, chemotherapy, or some antibiotics
      * Viral infections, including mumps and coxsackie B
      * High blood levels of a fat in the blood called triglycerides

Other causes include:

      * After an organ or bone marrow transplant
      * Cystic fibrosis
      * Crohn disease and other disorders when the body's immune system attacks and destroys healthy body tissue by mistake
      * Type 1 diabetes
      * Overactive parathyroid gland
      * Kawasaki disease

Sometimes, the cause is unknown.

## Symptoms

The main symptom of pancreatitis in children is severe pain in the upper
abdomen. Sometimes the pain may spread to the back, lower abdomen, and front
part of the chest. The pain may increase after meals.

Other symptoms may include:

      * Cough
      * Nausea and vomiting
      * Swelling in the abdomen
      * Fever
      * Yellowing of the skin, called jaundice
      * Loss of appetite
      * Increased pulse

## Exams and Tests

Your child's health care provider will do a physical exam, which may show:

      * Abdominal tenderness or lump (mass)
      * Fever
      * Low blood pressure
      * Fast heart rate
      * Fast breathing rate

The provider will perform lab tests to check the release of pancreatic
enzymes. These include tests to check the:

      * Blood amylase level
      * Blood lipase level
      * Urine amylase level

Other blood tests include:

      * Complete blood count (CBC)
      * Panel or group of blood tests that provide an overall picture of your body's chemical balance

Imaging tests that can show inflammation of the pancreas include:

      * Ultrasound of the abdomen (most common)
      * CT scan of the abdomen
      * MRI of the abdomen  

## Treatment

Treatment may require a stay in the hospital. It may involve:

      * Pain medicines
      * Stopping food or fluids by mouth 
      * Fluids given through a vein (IV)
      * Anti-nausea medicines for nausea and vomiting
      * Low-fat diet

The provider may insert a tube through the child's nose or mouth to remove
contents of the stomach. The tube will be left in for one or more days. This
may be done if vomiting and severe pain don't improve. The child also may be
given food through a vein (IV) or a feeding tube.

The child can be given solid food once they stop vomiting. Most children are
able to take solid food with 1 or 2 days after an attack of acute
pancreatitis.

In some cases, therapy is needed to:

      * Drain fluid that has collected in or around the pancreas
      * Remove gallstones
      * Relieve blockages of the pancreatic duct

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most cases go away in a week. Usually, children recover completely.

Chronic pancreatitis is rarely seen in children. When it occurs, it is most
often due to genetic defects or birth defects of the pancreas or biliary
ducts.

## Possible Complications

Severe irritation of the pancreas, and pancreatitis due to blunt trauma, such
as from a bike handle bar, can cause complications. These may include:

      * Collection of fluid around the pancreas
      * Buildup of fluid in the abdomen (ascites)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call the provider if your child shows symptoms of pancreatitis. Also call if
your child has these symptoms:

      * Intense, constant abdominal pain
      * Develops other symptoms of acute pancreatitis

## Prevention

Most of the time, there is no way to prevent pancreatitis.

## References

Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF. Pancreatitis. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics._ 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 351.

Lowe ME. Pancreatitis. In: Wyllie R, Hyams JS, Kay M, eds. _Pediatric
Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease._ 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 82.

Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM. Pancreatic disease. In: Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM,
eds. _Nelson Essentials of Pediatrics._ 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2015:chap 131.

## Review Date 4/16/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pancreatitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pancreatitis_thumb.jpg)Pancreatitis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

