Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000239.htm    
                                Description: Hepatic vein obstruction is a blockage of the hepatic vein, which carries blood away from the liver.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hepatic vein obstruction (Budd-Chiari)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000239.htm

# Hepatic vein obstruction (Budd-Chiari)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hepatic vein obstruction is a blockage of the hepatic vein, which carries
blood away from the liver.

## Causes

Hepatic vein obstruction prevents blood from flowing out of the liver and back
to the heart. This blockage can cause liver damage. Obstruction of this vein
can be caused by a tumor or growth pressing on the vessel, or by a clot in the
vessel (hepatic vein thrombosis).

Most often, it is caused by conditions that make blood clots more likely to
form, including:

      * Abnormal growth of cells in the bone marrow (myeloproliferative disorders)
      * Cancers
      * Chronic inflammatory or autoimmune diseases
      * Infections
      * Inherited (hereditary) or acquired problems with blood clotting
      * Oral contraceptives
      * Pregnancy

Hepatic vein blockage is the most common cause of Budd-Chiari syndrome.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Abdominal swelling or stretching due to fluid in the abdomen
      * Pain in the right upper abdomen
      * Vomiting blood
      * Yellowing of the skin (jaundice) 

## Exams and Tests

One of the signs is swelling of the abdomen from fluid buildup (ascites). The
liver is often swollen and tender.

Tests include:

      * CT scan or MRI of the abdomen
      * Doppler ultrasound of the liver veins
      * Liver biopsy
      * Liver function tests
      * Ultrasound of the liver

## Treatment

Treatment varies, depending on the cause of the blockage.

Your health care provider may recommend the following medicines:

      * Blood thinners (anticoagulants) 
      * Clot-busting drugs (thrombolytic treatment) 
      * Medicines to treat the liver disease, including ascites 

Surgery may be recommended. This may involve:

      * Angioplasty and stent placement
      * Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS)
      * Venous shunt surgery 
      * Liver transplant

## Possible Complications

Hepatic vein obstruction can get worse and lead to cirrhosis and liver
failure. This can be life threatening.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You have symptoms of hepatic vein obstruction 
      * You are being treated for this condition and you develop new symptoms 

## Alternative Names

Budd-Chiari syndrome; Hepatic veno-occlusive disease

## Images

      * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
      * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs
      * ![Blood clot formation](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19462t.jpg)Blood clot formation
      * ![Blood clots](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9326t.jpg)Blood clots

## References

Hauser SC. Vascular diseases of the gastrointestinal tract. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 143.

Valla DC. Vascular disease of the liver. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt
LJ, eds. _SleisengerÂ and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 85.

## Review Date 4/3/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Liver Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LiverDisease_thumb.jpg)Liver
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

