Link: https://medlineplus.gov/flu.html    
                                Description: Do you know the difference between a cold and the flu (influenza)? Or looking for information on the &quot;stomach flu?&quot; Discover symptoms and treatment.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Flu

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/flu.html

#  Flu

Also called: Grippe, Influenza

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Symptoms
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * Living With
    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * Images
    * Health Check Tools

### Research

    * Statistics and Research
    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Teenagers
    * Women
    * Older Adults
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is the flu?

The flu, also called influenza, is a respiratory infection caused by viruses.
Each year, millions of Americans get sick with the flu. Sometimes it causes
mild illness. But it can also be serious or even deadly, especially for people
over 65, newborn babies, and people with certain chronic illnesses.

### What causes the flu?

The flu is caused by flu viruses that spread from person to person. When
someone with the flu coughs, sneezes, or talks, they spray tiny droplets.
These droplets can land in the mouths or noses of people who are nearby. Less
often, a person may get flu by touching a surface or object that has flu virus
on it and then touching their own mouth, nose, or possibly their eyes.

### What are the symptoms of the flu?

Symptoms of the flu come on suddenly and may include

    * Fever or feeling feverish/chills
    * Cough
    * Sore throat
    * Runny or stuffy nose
    * Muscle or body aches
    * Headaches
    * Fatigue (tiredness)

Some people may also have vomiting and diarrhea. This is more common in
children.

Sometimes people have trouble figuring out whether they have a cold or the
flu. There are differences between them. The symptoms of a cold usually come
on more slowly and are less severe than symptoms of the flu. Colds rarely
cause a fever or headaches.

Sometimes people say that they have a "flu" when they really have something
else. For example, "stomach flu" isn't the flu; it's gastroenteritis.

### What other problems can the flu cause?

Some people who get the flu will develop complications. Some of these
complications can be serious or even life-threatening. They include

    * Bronchitis
    * Ear infection
    * Sinus infection
    * Pneumonia
    * Inflammation of the heart (myocarditis), brain (encephalitis), or muscle tissues (myositis, rhabdomyolysis)

The flu also can make chronic health problems worse. For example, people with
asthma may have asthma attacks while they have flu.

Certain people are more likely to have complications from the flu, including

    * Adults 65 and older
    * Pregnant women
    * Children younger than 5
    * People with certain chronic health conditions, such as asthma, diabetes, and heart disease

### How is the flu diagnosed?

To diagnose the flu, health care providers will first do a medical history and
ask about your symptoms. There are several tests for the flu. For the tests,
your provider will swipe the inside of your nose or the back of your throat
with a swab. Then the swab will be tested for the flu virus.

Some tests are quick and give results in 15-20 minutes. But these tests are
not as accurate as other flu tests. These other tests can give you the results
in one hour or several hours.

### What are the treatments for the flu?

Most people with the flu recover on their own without medical care. People
with mild cases of the flu should stay home and avoid contact with others,
except to get medical care.

But if you have symptoms of flu and are in a high risk group or are very sick
or worried about your illness, contact your health care provider. You might
need antiviral medicines to treat your flu. Antiviral medicines can make the
illness milder and shorten the time you are sick. They also can prevent
serious flu complications. They usually work best when you start taking them
within 2 days of getting sick.

### Can the flu be prevented?

The best way to prevent the flu is to get flu vaccine every year. But it's
also important to have good health habits like covering your cough and washing
your hands often. This can help stop the spread of germs and prevent the flu.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Start Here

    * Colds and the Flu (American Academy of Family Physicians)
    * Influenza (Flu) (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Key Facts about Influenza (Flu) and Flu Vaccine (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Seasonal Influenza Questions & Answers (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Symptoms

    * Flu Symptoms & Complications (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Cold, Flu, or Allergy? Know the Difference for Best Treatment ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
    * Diagnosing Flu (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Flu (Influenza) Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Flu & You: Preventive Steps (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Influenza Prevention: Information for Travelers (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Preventing the Flu (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Decongestants: OTC Relief for Congestion (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Echinacea ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * European Elder (Elderberry) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * Flu and Colds: In Depth ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health) Also in Spanish
    * People at High Risk for Flu Complications (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Time To Talk About Natural Products for the Flu and Colds: What Does the Science Say? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
    * What You Should Know about Flu Antiviral Drugs (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Living With

    * Caring for Someone Sick (Flu) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Flu: What to Do If You Get Sick (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Cancer, the Flu, and You (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Flu and Heart Disease and Stroke (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Flu and People with Asthma (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Flu and People with Diabetes (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * People at High Risk of Developing Flu-Related Complications (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * People with HIV & Influenza (Flu) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Seasonal Flu and Staph Infection (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Influenza (Flu) Viruses (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Influenza A (H3N2) Variant Virus (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Pandemic Flu (Department of Health and Human Services) Also in Spanish

## Images

    * Influenza Photos (Immunization Action Coalition)

## Health Check Tools

    * Flu Widget (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Statistics and Research

    * Situation Update: Summary of Weekly FluView (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Influenza, Human ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Influenza in U.S. Detention Centers - The Desperate Need for Immunization.
    * Article: Increasing influenza vaccination acceptance in the homeless: A quality improvement project.
    * Article: Recommendations for Prevention and Control of Influenza in Children, 2019-2020.
    * Flu -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * American Lung Association
    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
    * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * First Aid: Influenza (Flu) (Nemours Foundation)
    * Flu: A Guide for Parents of Children or Adolescents with Chronic Health Conditions (American Academy of Pediatrics)
    * Is It a Cold or the Flu (For Parents)? (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
    * Protecting Against Influenza (Flu): Advice for Caregivers of Young Children (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * The Flu (For Kids) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

    * Flu Facts (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Women

    * Pregnant Women and Influenza (Flu) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Older Adults

    * Flu Prevention and Treatment Tips (AGS Foundation for Health in Aging) \- PDF
    * People 65 Years and Older & Influenza (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * College students and the flu (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Flu (Medical Encyclopedia)
    * Flu (Influenza): Information for Parents (American Academy of Family Physicians, American Academy of Pediatrics, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF
    * Pregnancy and the flu (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Your baby and the flu (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Your child and the flu (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Flu](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Flu.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Colds and the flu - what to ask your doctor - adult
    * Colds and the flu - what to ask your doctor - child
    * College students and the flu
    * Flu
    * Pregnancy and the flu
    * Your baby and the flu
    * Your child and the flu

## Related Health Topics

    * Bird Flu
    * Common Cold
    * Flu Shot
    * H1N1 Flu (Swine Flu)
    * Viral Infections

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Flu is the National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Flu_

## NIH MedlinePlus Magazine

    * Achoo! Cold, Flu, or Something Else?

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 31 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 4 October 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

