Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000205.htm    
                                Description: The term &quot;liver disease&quot; applies to many conditions that stop the liver from working or prevent it from functioning well. Abdominal pain, yellowing of the skin or eyes (jaundice), or abnormal results of    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Liver disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000205.htm

# Liver disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The term "liver disease" applies to many conditions that stop the liver from
working or prevent it from functioning well. Abdominal pain, yellowing of the
skin or eyes (jaundice), or abnormal results of liver function tests may
suggest you have liver disease.

Related topics include:

      * Alpha-1 anti-trypsin deficiency
      * Amebic liver abscess
      * Autoimmune hepatitis
      * Biliary atresia
      * Cirrhosis
      * Coccidioidomycosis
      * Delta virus (hepatitis D)
      * Drug-induced cholestasis
      * Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
      * Hemochromatosis
      * Hepatitis A
      * Hepatitis B
      * Hepatitis C
      * Hepatocellular carcinoma
      * Liver disease due to alcohol
      * Primary biliary cirrhosis
      * Pyogenic liver abscess
      * Reye syndrome
      * Sclerosing cholangitis
      * Wilson disease

## Images

      * ![Fatty liver - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1178t.jpg)Fatty liver - CT scan
      * ![Liver with disproportional fattening - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1179t.jpg)Liver with disproportional fattening - CT scan
      * ![Cirrhosis of the liver](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8849t.jpg)Cirrhosis of the liver
      * ![Liver](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8850t.jpg)Liver

## References

Anstee QM, Jones DEJ. Liver and biliary tract disease. In: Walker BR, Colledge
NR, Ralston SH, Penman ID, eds. _Davidson's Principles and Practice of
Medicine_. 22nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2014:chap 23.

Martin P. Approach to the patient with liver disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 146.

## Review Date 4/2/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Liver Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LiverDisease_thumb.jpg)Liver
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

