Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003275.htm    
                                Description: Enlarged liver refers to swelling of the liver beyond its normal size. Hepatomegaly is another word to describe this problem.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Enlarged liver

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003275.htm

# Enlarged liver

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Enlarged liver refers to swelling of the liver beyond its normal size.
Hepatomegaly is another word to describe this problem.

If both the liver and spleen are enlarged, it is called hepatosplenomegaly.

## Considerations

The lower edge of the liver normally comes just to the lower edge of the ribs
on the right side. The edge of the liver is normally thin and firm. It cannot
be felt with the fingertips below the edge of the ribs, except when you take a
deep breath. It may be enlarged if a health care provider can feel it in this
area.

## Causes

The liver is involved in many of the body's functions. It is affected by many
conditions that can cause hepatomegaly, including:

      * Alcohol use (especially alcohol abuse)
      * Cancer metastases (spread of cancer to the liver)
      * Congestive heart failure
      * Glycogen storage disease
      * Hepatitis A
      * Hepatitis B
      * Hepatitis C
      * Hepatocellular carcinoma
      * Hereditary fructose intolerance
      * Infectious mononucleosis
      * Leukemia
      * Niemann-Pick disease
      * Primary biliary cholangitis
      * Reye syndrome
      * Sarcoidosis
      * Sclerosing cholangitis
      * Portal vein thrombosis
      * Steatosis (fat in the liver from metabolic problems such as diabetes, obesity, and high triglycerides, also called nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, or NASH)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

This condition is most often detected by a provider. You may not be aware of
the liver or spleen swelling.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will examine you and ask questions such as:

      * Did you notice fullness or a lump in the abdomen?
      * What other symptoms do you have?
      * Is there any abdominal pain?
      * Is there any yellowing of the skin (jaundice)?
      * Is there any vomiting?
      * Is there any unusual-colored or pale-colored stools?
      * Has your urine appeared to be darker than usual (brownish)?
      * Have you had a fever?
      * What medicines are you taking including over-the-counter and herbal medicines?
      * How much alcohol do you drink? 

Tests to determine the cause of hepatomegaly vary, depending on the suspected
cause, but may include:

      * Abdominal x-ray
      * Abdominal ultrasound (may be done to confirm the condition if the provider thinks your liver feels enlarged during a physical exam)
      * CT scan of the abdomen
      * Liver function tests, including blood clotting tests
      * MRI scan of the abdomen

## Alternative Names

Hepatosplenomegaly; Enlarged liver; Liver enlargement

## Images

      * ![Fatty liver - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1178t.jpg)Fatty liver - CT scan
      * ![Liver with disproportional fattening - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1179t.jpg)Liver with disproportional fattening - CT scan
      * ![Hepatomegaly](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9396t.jpg)Hepatomegaly

## References

Martin P. Approach to the patient with liver disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 146.

Plevris J, Parks R. The gastrointestinal system. In: Innes JA, Dover AR,
Fairhurst K, eds. _Macleod's Clinical Examination_. 14th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 6.

Pomeranz AJ, Sabnis S, Busey SL, Kliegman RM. Hepatomegaly. In: Pomeranz AJ,
Sabnis S, Busey SL, Kliegman RM, eds. _Pediatric Decision-Making Strategies_.
2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 27.

## Review Date 3/26/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Liver Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LiverDisease_thumb.jpg)Liver
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

