Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007336.htm    
                                Description: Portacaval shunting is a surgical treatment to create new connections between two blood vessels in your abdomen. It is used to treat people who have severe liver problems.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Portacaval shunting

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007336.htm

# Portacaval shunting

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Portacaval shunting is a surgical treatment to create new connections between
two blood vessels in your abdomen. It is used to treat people who have severe
liver problems.

## Description

Portacaval shunting is major surgery. It involves a large cut (incision) in
the belly area (abdomen). The surgeon then makes a connection between the
portal vein (which supplies most of the liver's blood) and the inferior vena
cava (the vein that drains blood from most of the lower part of the body.)

The new connection diverts blood flow away from the liver. This reduces blood
pressure in the portal vein and decreases the risk for a tear (rupture) and
bleeding from the veins in the esophagus and stomach.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Normally, blood coming from your esophagus, stomach, and intestines first
flows through the liver. When your liver is very damaged and there are
blockages, blood cannot flow through it easily. This is called portal
hypertension (increased pressure and backup of the portal vein.) The veins can
then break open (rupture), causing serious bleeding.

Common causes of portal hypertension are:

      * Alcohol use causing scarring of the liver (cirrhosis)
      * Blood clots in a vein that flows from the liver to the heart
      * Too much iron in the liverÂ (hemochromatosis)
      * Hepatitis B or C 

When portal hypertension occurs, you may have:

      * Bleeding from veins of the stomach, esophagus, or intestines (variceal bleeding)
      * Buildup of fluid in the belly (ascites)
      * Buildup of fluid in the chest (hydrothorax) 

Portacaval shunting diverts part of your blood flow from the liver. This
improves blood flow in your stomach, esophagus, and intestines.

Portacaval shunting is most often done when transjugular intrahepatic
portosystemic shunting (TIPS) has not worked. TIPS is a much simpler and less
invasive procedure.

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general are:

      * Allergy to medicines, problems breathing
      * Bleeding, blood clots, or infection 

Risks for this surgery include:

      * Liver failure
      * Worsening of hepatic encephalopathy (a disorder that affects concentration, mental status, and memory -- may lead to coma) 

## After the Procedure

People with liver disease are at a much higher risk for complications after
surgery.

People with severe liver disease that is getting worse may need to be
considered for liver transplant.

## Alternative Names

Shunt - portacaval; Liver failure - portacaval shunt; Cirrhosis - portacaval
shunt

## References

Henderson JM, Rosemurgy AS, Pinson CW. Technique of portosystemic shunting:
portocaval, distal splenorenal, mesocaval. In: Jarnagin WR, ed. _Blumgart's
Surgery of the Liver, Biliary Tract, and Pancreas_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 86.

Shah VH, Kamath PS. Portal hypertension and variceal bleeding. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 92.

## Review Date 1/4/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cirrhosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cirrhosis2_thumb.jpg)Cirrhosis
_Read more_

![Liver Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LiverDisease_thumb.jpg)Liver
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

