Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002441.htm    
                                Description: Some people with liver disease must eat a special diet. This diet helps the liver function and protects it from working too hard.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diet - liver disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002441.htm

# Diet - liver disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Some people with liver disease must eat a special diet. This diet helps the
liver function and protects it from working too hard.

## Function

Proteins normally help the body repair tissue. They also prevent fatty buildup
and damage to the liver cells.

In people with badly damaged livers, proteins are not properly processed.
Waste products may build up and affect the brain.

Dietary changes for liver disease may involve:

      * Cutting down the amount of animal protein you eat. This will help limit the buildup of toxic waste products.
      * Increasing your intake of carbohydrates to be in proportion with the amount of protein you eat.
      * Eat fruits and vegetables and lean protein such as legumes, poultry, and fish. Avoid uncooked shellfish.
      * Taking vitamins and medicines prescribed by your health care provider for low blood count, nerve problems, or nutritional problems from liver disease.
      * Limiting your salt intake. Salt in the diet may worsen fluid buildup and swelling in the liver. 

## Side Effects

Liver disease can affect the absorption of food and the production of proteins
and vitamins. Therefore, your diet may influence your weight, appetite, and
the amounts of vitamins in your body. DO NOT limit protein too much, because
it can result in a lack of certain amino acids.

## Recommendations

The changes you will need to make will depend on how well your liver is
working. Talk to your provider about the kind of diet that is best for you so
that you get the right amount of nutrition.

General recommendations for people with severe liver disease include:

      * Eat large amounts of carbohydrate foods. Carbohydrates should be the major source of calories in this diet.
      * Eat a moderate intake of fat, as prescribed by the provider. The increased carbohydrates and fat help prevent protein breakdown in the liver.
      * Have about 1.2 to 1.5 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight. This means that a 154-pound (70-kilogram) man should eat 84 to 105 grams of protein per day. Look for non-meat protein sources such as beans, tofu, and dairy products when you can. Talk to your provider about your protein needs.
      * Take vitamin supplements, especially B-complex vitamins.
      * Many people with liver disease are deficient in vitamin D. Ask your provider if you should take vitamin D supplements.
      * Limit the amount of sodium you eat to 2000 milligrams per day or less to reduce fluid retention. 

SAMPLE MENU

Breakfast

      * 1 orange
      * Cooked oatmeal with milk and sugar
      * 1 slice of whole-wheat toast
      * Strawberry jam
      * Coffee or tea 

Mid-morning snack

      * Glass of milk or piece of fruit

Lunch

      * 4 ounces (110 grams) of cooked lean fish, poultry, or meat
      * A starch item (such as potatoes)
      * A cooked vegetable
      * Salad
      * 2 slices of whole-grain bread
      * 1 tablespoon (20 grams) of jelly
      * Fresh fruit
      * Milk 

Mid-afternoon snack

      * Milk with graham crackers 

Dinner

      * 4 ounces (110 grams) of cooked fish, poultry, or meat
      * Starch item (such as potatoes)
      * A cooked vegetable
      * Salad
      * 2 whole-grain rolls
      * Fresh fruit or dessert
      * 8 ounces (240 grams) of milk 

Evening snack

      * Glass of milk or piece of fruit 

Most of the time, you do not have to avoid specific foods.

Talk to your provider if you have questions about your diet or symptoms.

## Images

      * ![Liver](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8850t.jpg)Liver

## References

Dasarathy S. Nutrition and the liver. In: Sanyal AJ, Boyter TD, Lindor KD,
Terrault NA, eds. _Zakim and Boyer's Hepatology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 55.

European Association for Study of the Liver. EASL clinical practice guidelines
on nutrition in chronic liver disease. _J Hepatol_. 2019:70(1):172-193. PMID:
30144956 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30144956.

Hogenauer C, Hammer HF. Maldigestion and malabsorption. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 104.

U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. Eating tips for people with cirrhosis.
www.hepatitis.va.gov/cirrhosis/patient/diet.asp#top. Updated October 29, 2018.
Accessed July 5, 2019.

## Review Date 3/26/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Liver Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LiverDisease_thumb.jpg)Liver
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

