Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003614.htm    
                                Description: Porphyrins are natural chemicals in the body that help form many important substances in the body. One of these is hemoglobin, the protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Porphyrins urine test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003614.htm

# Porphyrins urine test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Porphyrins are natural chemicals in the body that help form many important
substances in the body. One of these is hemoglobin, the protein in red blood
cells that carries oxygen in the blood.

Porphyrins can be measured in the urine or blood. This article discusses the
urine test.

## How the Test is Performed

After you provide a urine sample, it is tested in the lab. This is called a
random urine sample.

If needed, yourÂ health care providerÂ may ask you to collect your urine at
home over 24 hours. This is called a 24-hour urine sample. Your provider will
tell you how to do this. Follow instructions exactly so that the results are
accurate.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your provider may tell you to temporarily stop taking medicines that may
affect the test results. These may include:

      * Antibiotics and anti-fungal drugs
      * Anti-anxiety drugs
      * Birth control pills
      * Diabetes medicines
      * Pain medicines
      * Sleep medicines

Do not stop taking any medicine without first talking to your provider.

## How the Test will Feel

This test involves only normal urination and there is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider will order this test if you have signs of porphyria or other
disorders that can cause abnormal urine porphyrins.

## Normal Results

Normal results vary depending on the type of porphyrin tested. In general, for
a 24-hour urine test of total porphyrins, the range is about 20 to 120 Âµg/L
(25 to 144 nmol/L).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or may test different specimens. Talk to your
provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

      * Liver cancer
      * Hepatitis
      * Lead poisoning
      * Porphyria (several types)

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Alternative Names

Urine uroporphyrin; Urine coproporphyrin; Porphyria - uroporphyrin

## Images

      * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
      * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract
      * ![Porphyrin urine test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9770t.jpg)Porphyrin urine test

## References

Fuller SJ, Wiley JS. Heme biosynthesis and its disorders: porphyrias and
sideroblastic anemias. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds.
_Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 38.

Riley RS, McPherson RA. Basic examination of urine. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 28.

## Review Date 1/29/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Porphyria](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Porphyria_thumb.jpg)Porphyria
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

