Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001208.htm    
                                Description: Porphyrias are a group of rare inherited disorders. An important part of hemoglobin, called heme, is not made properly. Hemoglobin is a protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen. Heme is also found    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Porphyria

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001208.htm

# Porphyria

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Porphyrias are a group of rare inherited disorders. An important part of
hemoglobin, called heme, is not made properly. Hemoglobin is a protein in red
blood cells that carries oxygen. Heme is also found in myoglobin, a protein
found in certain muscles.

## Causes

Normally, the body makes heme in a multi-step process. Porphyrins are made
during several steps of this process. People with porphyria are lacking
certain enzymes needed for this process. This causes abnormal amounts of
porphyrins or related chemicals to build up in the body.

There are many different forms of porphyria. The most common type is porphyria
cutanea tarda (PCT).

Drugs, infection, alcohol, and hormones such as estrogen may trigger attacks
of certain types of porphyria.

Porphyria is inherited. This means the disorder is passed down through
families.

## Symptoms

Porphyria causes three major symptoms:

      * Abdominal pain or cramping (only in some forms of the disease)
      * Sensitivity to light that can cause rashes, blistering, and scarring of the skin (photodermatitis)
      * Problems with the nervous system and muscles (seizures, mental disturbances, nerve damage) 

Attacks can occur suddenly. They often start with severe abdominal pain
followed by vomiting and constipation. Being out in the sun can cause pain,
sensations of heat, blistering, and skin redness and swelling. Blisters heal
slowly, often with scarring or skin color changes. The scarring may be
disfiguring. Urine may turn red or brown after an attack.

Other symptoms include:

      * Muscle pain
      * Muscle weakness or paralysis
      * Numbness or tingling
      * Pain in the arms or legs
      * Pain in the back
      * Personality changes 

Attacks can sometimes be life-threatening, producing:

      * Low blood pressure
      * Severe electrolyte imbalances
      * Shock 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical exam, which includes
listening to your heart. You may have a fast heart rate (tachycardia). The
provider may find that your deep tendon reflexes (knee jerks or others) do not
work properly.

Blood and urine tests may reveal kidney problems or other problems. Some of
the other tests that may be done include:

      * Blood gases
      * Comprehensive metabolic panel
      * Porphyrin levels and levels of other chemicals linked to this condition (checked in the bloodÂ or urine)
      * Ultrasound of the abdomen
      * Urinalysis

## Treatment

Some of the medicines used to treat a sudden (acute) attack of porphyria may
include:

      * Hematin given through a vein (intravenously)
      * Pain medicine
      * Propranolol to control the heartbeat
      * Sedatives to help you feel calm and less anxious 

Other treatments may include:

      * Beta-carotene supplements to lessen photosensitivity
      * Chloroquine in low doses to reduce levels of porphyrins
      * Fluids and glucose to boost carbohydrate levels, which helps limit the production of porphyrins
      * Removal of blood (phlebotomy) to reduce levels of porphyrins

Depending on the type of porphyria you have, your provider may tell you to:

      * Avoid all alcohol
      * Avoid drugs that may trigger an attack
      * Avoid injuring the skin
      * Avoid sunlight as much as possible and use sunscreen when outside
      * Eat a high-carbohydrate diet 

## Support Groups

The following resources can provide more information on porphyria:

      * American Porphyria Foundation -- www.porphyriafoundation.org/for-patients/patient-portal
      * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases -- www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/liver-disease/porphyria
      * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/porphyria

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Porphyria is a life-long disease with symptoms that come and go. Some forms of
the disease cause more symptoms than others. Getting proper treatment and
staying away from triggers can help lengthen the time between attacks.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Coma
      * Gallstones
      * Paralysis
      * Respiratory failure (due to weakness of chest muscles)
      * Scarring of the skin 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Get medical help as soon as you have signs of an acute attack. Talk to your
provider about your risk for this condition if you have a long history of
undiagnosed abdominal pain, muscle and nerve problems, and sensitivity to
sunlight.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling may benefit people who want to have children and who have a
family history of any type of porphyria.

## Alternative Names

Porphyria cutanea tarda; Acute intermittent porphyria; Hereditary
coproporphyria; Congenital erythropoietic porphyria; Erythropoietic
protoporphyria

## Images

      * ![Porphyria cutanea tarda on the hands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2573t.jpg)Porphyria cutanea tarda on the hands

## References

Bissell DM, Anderson KE, Bonkovsky HL. Porphyria. _N Engl J Med_.
2017;377(9):862-872. PMID: 28854095 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28854095.

Fuller SJ, Wiley JS. Heme biosynthesis and its disorders: porphyrias and
sideroblastic anemias. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds.
_Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 38.

Habif TP. Light-related diseases and disorders of pigmentation. In: Habif TP,
ed. _Clinical Dermatology: A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 19.

Hift RJ. The porphyrias. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 210.

## Review Date 1/29/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Porphyria](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Porphyria_thumb.jpg)Porphyria
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

