Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003372.htm    
                                Description: Porphyrins help form many important substances in the body. One of these is hemoglobin. This is the protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Porphyrins blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003372.htm

# Porphyrins blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Porphyrins help form many important substances in the body. One of these is
hemoglobin. This is the protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen in the
blood.

Porphyrins can be measured in the blood or the urine. This article discusses
the blood test.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

The sample is then placed in ice and taken immediately to the laboratory.
Three porphyrins can normally be measured in small amounts in human blood.
They are:

      * Coproporphyrin
      * Protoporphyrin (PROTO)
      * Uroporphyrin 

Protoporphyrin is normally found in the highest amount. More tests are needed
to show the levels of specific porphyrins.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You should not eat for 12 to 14 hours before this test. You may drink water
right before the test. Your test results may be affected if you do not follow
these instructions.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or slight bruising. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is used to diagnose porphyrias. This is a group of rare disorders
often passed down through family members.

It may also be used along with other tests to diagnose lead poisoning and
certain nervous system and skin disorders.

## Normal Results

This test specifically measures total porphyrin levels. But, reference values
(a range of values seen in a group of healthy people) for the individual
components are also included:

      * Total porphyrin levels: 0 to 1.0 mcg/dL (0 to 15 nmol/L)
      * Coproporphyrin level: <2 mcg/dL (<30 nmol/L)
      * Protoporphyrin level: 16 to 60 mcg/dL (0.28 to 1.07 Âµmol/L)
      * Uroporphyrin level: <2 mcg/dL (<2.4 nmol/L) 

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your doctor
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Increased levels of coproporphyrins may be a sign of:

      * Congenital erythropoietic porphyria
      * Hepatic coproporphyria
      * Sideroblastic anemia
      * Variegate porphyria

An increasedÂ protoporphyrin level may be a sign of:

      * Anemia of chronic disease
      * CongenitalÂ erythropoietic protoporphyria
      * Increased erythropoiesis
      * Infection
      * Iron deficiency anemia
      * Lead poisoning
      * Sideroblastic anemia
      * Thalassemia
      * Variegate porphyria

An increased uroporphyrin level may be a sign of:

      * Congenital erythropoietic porphyria
      * Porphyria cutanea tarda

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another, and from one side of the body to the
other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be more difficult than
from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

      * Excessive bleeding
      * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
      * Multiple punctures to locate veins
      * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
      * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Protoporphyrin levels; Porphyrins - total; Coproporphyrin levels; PROTO test

## Images

      * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Porphyrins, quantitative - blood. In: Chernecky CC,
Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:891-892.

Fuller SJ, Wiley JS. Heme biosynthesis and its disorders: porphyrias and
sideroblastic anemias. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds.
_Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 38.

## Review Date 1/29/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Porphyria](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Porphyria_thumb.jpg)Porphyria
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

