Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000022.htm    
                                Description: Unconsciousness is when a person is unable to respond to people and activities.Â Doctors often call this a coma or being in a comatose state.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Unconsciousness - first aid

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000022.htm

# Unconsciousness - first aid

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Unconsciousness is when a person is unable to respond to people and
activities.Â Doctors often call this a coma or being in a comatose state.

Other changes in awareness can occur without becoming unconscious. These are
called altered mental status or changed mental status. They include sudden
confusion, disorientation, or stupor.

Unconsciousness or any other sudden change in mental status must be treated as
a medical emergency.

## Causes

Unconsciousness can be caused by nearly any major illness or injury. It can
also be caused byÂ substance (drug)Â and alcohol use. Choking on an object can
result in unconsciousness as well.

Brief unconsciousness (or fainting) is often a result from dehydration, low
blood sugar, or temporary low blood pressure. It can also be caused by serious
heart or nervous system problems. A doctor will determine if the affected
person needs tests.

Other causes of fainting include straining during a bowel movement (vasovagal
syncope), coughing very hard, or breathing very fast (hyperventilating).

## Symptoms

The person will be unresponsive (does not respond to activity, touch, sound,
or other stimulation).

The following symptoms may occur after a person has been unconscious:

      * Amnesia for (not remembering) events before, during, and even after the period of unconsciousness
      * Confusion
      * Drowsiness
      * Headache
      * Inability to speak or move parts of the body (stroke symptoms)
      * Lightheadedness
      * Loss of bowel or bladder control (incontinence)
      * Rapid heartbeat (palpitations)
      * Slow heartbeat  

      * Stupor (severe confusion and weakness)

If the person is unconscious from choking, symptoms may include:

      * Inability to speak
      * Difficulty breathing
      * Noisy breathing or high-pitched sounds while inhaling
      * Weak, ineffective coughing 
      * Bluish skin color

Being asleep is not the same as being unconscious. A sleeping person will
respond to loud noises or gentle shaking. An unconscious person will not.

## First Aid

If someone is awake but less alert than usual, ask a few simple questions,
such as:

      * What is your name? 
      * What is the date? 
      * How old are you?

Wrong answers or not being able to answer the question suggest a change in
mental status.

If a person is unconscious or has a change in mental status, follow these
first aid steps:

      1. Call or tell someone to **call 911**.
      2. Check the person's airway, breathing, and pulse frequently. If necessary, begin CPR.
      3. If the person is breathing and lying on their back, and you do not think there is a spinal injury, carefully roll the person toward you onto their side. Bend the top leg so both hip and knee are at right angles. Gently tilt their head back to keep the airway open. If breathing or pulse stops at any time, roll the person ontoÂ their back and begin CPR.
      4. If you think there is a spinal injury, leave the person where you found them (as long as breathing continues). If the person vomits, roll the entire body at one time to their side. Support their neck and back to keep the head and body in the same position while you roll.
      5. Keep the person warm until medical help arrives.
      6. If you see a person fainting, try to prevent a fall. Lay the person flat on the floor and raise their feet about 12 inches (30 centimeters).
      7. If fainting is likely due to low blood sugar, give the person something sweet to eat or drink only when they become conscious.

If the person is unconscious from choking:

      * Begin CPR. Chest compressions may help dislodge the object.
      * If you see something blocking the airway and it isÂ loose, try to remove it. If the object is lodged in the person's throat,Â DO NOT try to grasp it. This can push the object farther into the airway.
      * Continue CPR and keep checking to see if the object is dislodged until medical help arrives.

## DO NOT

      * DO NOT give an unconscious person any food or drink. 
      * DO NOT leave the person alone. 
      * DO NOT place a pillow under the head of an unconscious person. 
      * DO NOT slap an unconscious person's face or splash water on their face to try to revive them.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call 911 if the person is unconscious and:

      * Does not return to consciousness quickly (within a minute)
      * Has fallen down or been injured, especially if they are bleeding
      * Has diabetes
      * Has seizures
      * Has lost bowel or bladder control
      * Is not breathing
      * Is pregnant
      * Is over age 50

Call 911 if the person regains consciousness, but:

      * Feels chest pain, pressure, or discomfort, or has a pounding or irregular heartbeat
      * Cannot speak, has vision problems, or cannot move their arms and legs

## Prevention

To prevent becoming unconscious or fainting:

      * Avoid situations where your blood sugar level gets too low.
      * Avoid standing in one place too long without moving, especially if you are prone to fainting.
      * Get enough fluid, particularly in warm weather.
      * If you feel like you are about to faint, lie down or sit with your head bent forward between your knees.

If you have a medical condition, such as diabetes, always wear a medical
alertÂ necklace or bracelet.

## Alternative Names

Loss of consciousness - first aid; Coma - first aid; Mental status change;
Altered mental status; Syncope - first aid; Faint - first aidÂ

## Patient Instructions

      * Concussion in adults - discharge
      * Concussion in adults - what to ask your doctor
      * Concussion in children - discharge
      * Concussion in children - what to ask your doctor
      * Preventing head injuries in children

## Images

      * ![Recovery position - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19571t.jpg)Recovery position - series

## References

American Red Cross. _First Aid/CPR/AED Participant's Manual_. 2nd ed. Dallas,
TX: American Red Cross; 2016.

Crocco TJ, Meurer WJ. Stroke. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 91.

De Lorenzo RA. Syncope. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 12.

Kleinman ME, Brennan EE, Goldberger ZD, et al. Part 5: adult basic life
support and cardiopulmonary resuscitation quality: 2015 American Heart
Association guidelines update for cardiopulmonary resuscitation and emergency
cardiovascular care. _Circulation_. 2015;132(18 Suppl 2):S414-S435. PMID:
26472993 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26472993.

Lei C, Smith C. Depressed consciousness and coma. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap13.

## Review Date 1/12/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![A photograph of a man administering first aid to a
woman](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TI_FirstAid_thumb.jpg)First Aid _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

