Link: https://medlineplus.gov/leishmaniasis.html    
                                Description: Leishmaniasis or leishmania, also known as Kala-azar is a parasitic disease spread by the bite of infected sand flies.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Leishmaniasis

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/leishmaniasis.html

#  Leishmaniasis

Also called: Kala-azar

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Leishmaniasis is a parasitic disease spread by the bite of infected sand
flies. There are several different forms of leishmaniasis. The most common are
cutaneous and visceral. The cutaneous type causes skin sores. The visceral
type affects internal organs such as the spleen, liver, and bone marrow.
People with this form usually have fever, weight loss, and an enlarged spleen
and liver.

Leishmaniasis is found in parts of about 88 countries. Most of these countries
are in the tropics and subtropics. It is possible but very unlikely that you
would get this disease in the United States. But you should be aware of it if
you are traveling to the Middle East or parts of Central America, South
America, Asia, Africa or southern Europe.

Treatment is with medicines that contain antimony, a type of metal, or with
strong antibiotics. The best way to prevent the disease is to protect yourself
from sand fly bites:

    * Stay indoors from dusk to dawn, when sand flies are the most active
    * Wear long pants and long-sleeved shirts when outside
    * Use insect repellent and bed nets as needed

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Start Here

    * Leishmaniasis (American Osteopathic College of Dermatology)
    * Leishmaniasis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases)
    * Leishmaniasis FAQs (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Diagnosis of Leishmaniasis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Diagnosis of Parasitic Diseases (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * Travelers' Health: Leishmaniasis, Cutaneous (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Travelers' Health: Leishmaniasis, Visceral (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Specifics

    * Leishmaniasis Disease (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Leishmaniasis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: The potential of live attenuated vaccines against Cutaneous Leishmaniasis.
    * Article: Spatial analysis of leishmaniasis in Brazil: a systematized review.
    * Article: Cutaneous leishmaniasis in Syria: A review of available data during the...
    * Leishmaniasis -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
    * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Patient Handouts

    * Leishmaniasis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Leishmaniasis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Leishmaniasis.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Leishmaniasis

## Related Health Topics

    * Parasitic Diseases
    * Traveler's Health

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Leishmaniasis is the National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 12 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 31 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

