Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000040.htm    
                                Description: A splint is a device used for holding a part of the body stable to decrease pain and prevent further injury.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

How to make a splint

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000040.htm

# How to make a splint

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A splint is a device used for holding a part of the body stable to decrease
pain and prevent further injury.

## Considerations

After an injury, a splint is used to hold still and protect the wounded body
part from further damage until you get medical help. It is important to check
for good circulation after the injured body part has been immobilized.

Splints can be used for different injuries. For example, withÂ a broken bone,
stabilizing the area is important to reduce pain, prevent further injury, and
allow the person to move about as much as possible.

## First Aid

Here is how to make and apply a splint:

      * Care for the wound first before applying a splint.
      * An injured body part should usually be splinted in the position in which it was found, unless it has been treated by a professional who is a specialist in that body part.
      * Find something rigid to use as supports to make the splint, such as sticks, boards, or even rolled up newspapers. If none can be found, use a rolled blanket or clothing. An injured body part can also be taped to an uninjured body part in order to prevent it from moving. For example, you can tape an injured finger to the finger next to it.
      * Extend the splint beyond the injured area to keep it from moving. Try to include the joint above and below the injury in the splint.
      * Secure the splint with ties, such as belts, cloth strips, neckties, or tape above and below the injury. Make sure the knots are not pressing on the injury. DO NOT make the ties too tight. Doing so can cut off blood circulation.
      * Check the area of the injured body part often for swelling, paleness, or numbness. If needed, loosen the splint.
      * Seek medical help right away.

## DO NOT

DO NOT change the position of, or realign, an injured body part. Be careful
when you place a splint to avoid causing more injury. Be sure to pad the
splint well to avoid putting extra pressure on the injured limb.

If the injury is more painful after placing the splint, remove the splint and
seek medical help right away.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If an injury occurs while in a remote area, call for emergency medical help as
soon as possible. In the meantime, give first aid to the person.

Seek medical help right away for any of the following:

      * Bone that is sticking through the skin
      * An open wound around the injury
      * Loss of feeling (sensation)
      * Loss of pulse or a feeling of warmth to the injured site
      * Fingers and toes turn blue and lose sensation 

If medical assistance is not available and the injured part looks abnormally
bent, gently placing the injured part back into its normal position may
improve the circulation.

## Prevention

Safety is the best way to avoid broken bones caused by falling.

Avoid activities that strain the muscles or bones for long periods as these
can cause fatigue and falls. Always use protective gear, such as proper
footwear, pads, braces, and a helmet.

## Alternative Names

Splint - instructions

## Images

      * ![Fracture types \(1\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1096t.jpg)Fracture types (1)
      * ![Hand splint - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/15050t.jpg)Hand splint - series

## References

Chudnofsky CR, Chudnofsky AS. Splinting techniques. In: Roberts JR, Custalow
CB, Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency
Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 50.

Kassel MR, O'Connor T, Gianotti A. Splints and slings. In: Auerbach PS,
Cushing TA, Harris NS, eds. _Auerbach's Wilderness Medicine_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 23.

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![A photograph of a man administering first aid to a
woman](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TI_FirstAid_thumb.jpg)First Aid _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

