Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007212.htm    
                                Description: A scrape is an area where the skin is rubbed off. It usually occurs after you fall or hit something. A scrape is often not serious. But it can be painful and may bleed slightly.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Scrape

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007212.htm

# Scrape

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A scrape is an area where the skin is rubbed off. It usually occurs after you
fall or hit something. A scrape is often not serious. But it can be painful
and may bleed slightly.

## First Aid

A scrape is often dirty. Even if you do not see dirt, the scrape can get
infected. Take these steps to clean the area thoroughly.

      * Wash your hands.
      * Then wash the scrape thoroughly with mild soap and water.
      * Large pieces of dirt or debris should be removed with tweezers. Clean the tweezers with soap and water before use.
      * If available, apply antibiotic ointment.
      * Apply a non-stick bandage. Change the bandage once or twice a day until the scrape has healed. If the scrape is very small, or on the face or scalp, you can let it air dry.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

      * The scrape has dirt and other debris deep inside.
      * The scrape is very large.
      * The scrape looks like it may be infected. Signs of infection include warmth or red streaks at the injured site, pus, or a fever.
      * You have not had a tetanus shot within 10 years.

## Images

      * ![Scrape](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/21740t.jpg)Scrape

## References

Simon BC, Hern HG. Wound management principles. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 52.

## Review Date 5/13/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![A photograph of a man administering first aid to a
woman](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TI_FirstAid_thumb.jpg)First Aid _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

