Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001958.htm    
                                Description: You should make sure that you and your family are prepared to treat common symptoms, injuries, and emergencies. By planning ahead, you can create a well-stocked home first aid kit. Keep all of your supplies    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

First aid kit

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001958.htm

# First aid kit

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You should make sure that you and your family are prepared to treat common
symptoms, injuries, and emergencies. By planning ahead, you can create a well-
stocked home first aid kit. Keep all of your supplies in one location so you
know exactly where they are when you need them.

The following items are basic supplies. You can get most of them at a pharmacy
or supermarket.

Bandages and dressings:

      * Adhesive bandages (Band-Aid or similar brand); assorted sizes
      * Aluminum finger splints
      * Elastic (ACE) bandage for wrapping wrist, ankle, knee, and elbow injuries
      * Eye shield, pads, and bandages
      * Latex or non-latex gloves to reduce contamination risk
      * Sterile gauze pads, non-stick (Adaptic-type, petrolatum or other) gauze and adhesive tape
      * Triangular bandage for wrapping injuries and making an arm sling 

Home health equipment:

      * Blue baby bulb or turkey baster suction device
      * Disposable, instant ice bags
      * Face mask to reduce wound contamination risk  

      * First-aid manual
      * Hand sanitizer
      * Latex or non-latex gloves to reduce contamination risk
      * Save-A-Tooth storage device in case a tooth is broken or knocked out; contains a travel case and salt solution
      * Sterile cotton balls
      * Sterile cotton-tipped swabs
      * Syringe, medicine cup, or medicine spoon for giving specific doses of medicine
      * Thermometer
      * Tweezers, to remove ticks and small splinters 

Medicine for cuts and injuries:

      * Antiseptic solution or wipes, such as hydrogen peroxide, povidone-iodine, or chlorhexidine
      * Antibiotic ointment, such as bacitracin, polysporin, or mupirocin
      * Sterile eyewash, such as contact lens saline solution
      * Calamine lotion for stings or poison ivy
      * Hydrocortisone cream, ointment, or lotion for itching 

Be sure to check your kit regularly. Replace any supplies that are getting low
or have expired.

Other supplies may be included in a first aid kit. This depends on the area in
which you plan to spend time.

## Images

      * ![First aid kit](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17065t.jpg)First aid kit

## References

American Academy of Family Physicians website. What do I need in my first aid
kit? familydoctor.org/what-do-i-need-in-my-first-aid-kit. Updated June 7,
2017. Accessed February 14, 2019.

Auerbach PS. First-aid kits. In: Auerbach PS, ed. _Medicine for the Outdoors:
The Essential Guide to First-Aid and Medical Emergencies_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:415-420.

American College of Emergency Physicians website. Home first aid kit.
www.emergencycareforyou.org/globalassets/ecy/media/pdf/acep-home-first-aid-
kit-final.pdf. Accessed February 14, 2019.

## Review Date 1/12/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![A photograph of a man administering first aid to a
woman](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TI_FirstAid_thumb.jpg)First Aid _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

