Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000055.htm    
                                Description: This article discusses how to remove a fishhook that is stuck in the skin.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fishhook removal

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000055.htm

# Fishhook removal

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

This article discusses how to remove a fishhook that is stuck in the skin.

## Causes

Fishing accidents are the most common cause of fishhooks stuck in the skin.

## Symptoms

A fishhook stuck in the skin can cause:

      * Pain
      * Localized swelling 
      * Bleeding 

## First Aid

If the barb of the hook has not entered the skin, pull the tip of the hook out
in the opposite direction it went in. Otherwise, you can use one of the
following ways to remove a hook that is superficially (not deeply) embedded
just beneath the skin.

Fish line method:

      * First, wash your hands with soap and water or use a disinfecting solution. Then wash the skin surrounding the hook.
      * Put a loop of fish line through the bend of the fishhook so that a quick jerk can be applied and the hook can be pulled out directly in line with the shaft of the hook.
      * Holding onto the shaft, push the hook slightly downwards and inwards (away from the barb) so as to disengage the barb.
      * Holding this pressure constant to keep the barb disengaged, give a quick jerk on the fish line and the hook will pop out.
      * Wash the wound thoroughly with soap and water. Apply a loose, sterile dressing. DO NOT close the wound with tape and apply antibiotic ointment. Doing so can increase the chance of infection.
      * Watch the skin for signs of infection such as redness, swelling, pain, or drainage. 

Wire cutting method:

      * First, wash your hands with soap and water or disinfecting solution. Then wash the skin surrounding the hook.
      * Apply gentle pressure along the curve of the fishhook while pulling on the hook.
      * If the tip of the hook lies near the surface of the skin, push the tip through the skin. Then cut it off just behind the barb with wire cutters. Remove the rest of the hook by pulling it back through the way it entered.
      * Wash the wound thoroughly with soap and water. Apply a loose sterile dressing. DO NOT close the wound with tape and apply antibiotic ointment. Doing so can increase the chance of infection.
      * Watch skin for signs of infection such as redness, swelling, pain, or drainage. 

DO NOT use any of the two methods above, or any other method, if the hook is
stuck deeply in the skin, or in a joint or tendon, or located in or near an
eye or artery. Get medical help right away.

A fishhook in the eye is a medical emergency, and you should go to the nearest
emergency room right away. The injured person should lie down with the head
slightly raised. They should not move the eye, and the eye should be protected
from further injury.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

The main advantage to getting medical help for any fishhook injury is that it
can be removed under local anesthesia. This means before the hook is removed,
theÂ health care providerÂ numbs the area with medicine.

Call yourÂ provider if:

      * You have a fishhook injury and your tetanus immunization is not up to date (or if you are unsure)
      * After the fishhook is removed, the area starts to show signs of infection, such as increasing redness, swelling, pain, or drainage

## Prevention

The following steps can help prevent fishhook injuries.

      * Keep a safe distance between you and another person who is fishing, especially ifÂ anyone isÂ casting.
      * Keep electrician's pliers with a wire-cutting blade and disinfecting solution in your tackle box.
      * Make sure you are up to date on your tetanus immunization (vaccine). You should get a booster shot every 10 years. 

## Alternative Names

Fishhook removal from skin

## Images

      * ![Skin layers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8912t.jpg)Skin layers

## References

Otten EJ. Hunting and and fishing injuries. In: Auerbach PS, Cushing TA,
Harris NS, eds. _Auerbach's Wilderness Medicine_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 26.

Stone, DB, Scordino DJ. Foreign body removal. In: Roberts JR, ed. _Roberts and
Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2014: chap 36.

## Review Date 10/16/2017

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![A photograph of a man administering first aid to a
woman](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TI_FirstAid_thumb.jpg)First Aid _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

