Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007410.htm    
                                Description: General anesthesia is treatment with certain medicines that puts you into a deep sleep so you do not feel pain during surgery. After you receive these medicines, you will not be aware of what is happening    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

General anesthesia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007410.htm

# General anesthesia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

General anesthesia is treatment with certain medicines that puts you into a
deep sleep so you do not feel pain during surgery. After you receive these
medicines, you will not be aware of what is happening around you.

## Description

Most times, a doctor called an anesthesiologist will give you the anesthesia.
Sometimes, a certified and registered nurse anesthetist will take care of you.

The medicine is given into your vein. You may be asked to breathe in (inhale)
a special gas through a mask. Once you are asleep, the doctor may insert a
tube into your windpipe (trachea) to help you breathe and protect your lungs.

You will be watched very closely while you are asleep. Your blood pressure,
pulse, and breathing will be monitored. The health care provider taking care
of you can change how deeply asleep you are during the surgery.

You will not move, feel any pain, or have any memory of the procedure because
of this medicine.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

General anesthesia is a safe way to stay asleep and pain-free during
procedures that would:

      * Be too painful
      * Take a long time
      * Affect your ability to breathe
      * Make you uncomfortable
      * Cause too much anxiety 

You may also be able to have conscious sedation for your procedure. Sometimes,
though, it is not enough to make you comfortable. Children may need general
anesthesia for a medical or dental procedure to handle any pain or anxiety
they may feel.

## Risks

General anesthesia is usually safe for healthy people. You may have a higher
risk of problems with general anesthesia if you:

      * Abuse alcohol or medicines
      * Have allergies or a family history of being allergic to medicines
      * Have heart, lung, or kidney problems
      * Smoke 

Ask your doctor about these complications:

      * Death (rare)
      * Harm to your vocal cords
      * Heart attack
      * Lung infection
      * Mental confusion (temporary)
      * Stroke
      * Trauma to the teeth or tongue
      * Waking during anesthesia (rare)
      * Allergy to the drugs
      * Malignant hyperthermia (fast rise in body temperature and severe muscle contractions)

## Before the Procedure

Tell your provider:

      * If you could be pregnant
      * What medicines you are taking, even drugs or herbs you bought without a prescription 

During the days before the surgery:

      * An anesthesiologist will take a complete medical history to determine the type and amount of the anesthesia you need. This includes asking you about any allergies, health conditions, medicines, and history of anesthesia.
      * Several days to a week before surgery, you may be asked to stop taking blood thinning drugs, such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), and warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven).
      * Ask your provider which drugs you should still take on the day of your surgery.
      * Stop smoking. Your doctor can help.

On the day of your surgery:

      * You will likely be asked not to drink or eat anything after midnight the night before the surgery. This is to prevent you from vomiting while you are under the effect of the anesthesia. Vomiting can cause food in the stomach to be inhaled into the lungs. This can lead to breathing problems.
      * Take the drugs that your provider told you to take with a small sip of water.
      * Arrive at the hospital on time.

## After the Procedure

You will wake up tired and groggy in the recovery or operating room. You may
also feel sick to your stomach, and have a dry mouth, sore throat, or feel
cold or restless until the effect of the anesthesia wears off. Your nurse will
monitor these side effects, which will wear off, but it may take a few hours.
Sometimes, nausea and vomiting can be treated with other medicines.

Follow your surgeon's instructions while you recover and care for your
surgical wound.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

General anesthesia is generally safe because of modern equipment, medicines,
and safety standards. Most people recover completely and do not have any
complications.

## Alternative Names

Surgery - general anesthesia

## Patient Instructions

      * Anesthesia - what to ask your doctor - adult
      * Anesthesia - what to ask your doctor - child

## References

Cohen NH. Perioperative management. In: Miller RD, ed. _Miller's Anesthesia_.
8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 3.

Hernandez A, Sherwood ER. Anesthesiology principles, pain management, and
conscious sedation. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL,
eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 14.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Mary C. Mancini, MD, PhD, Director, Cardiothoracic Surgery,
Christus Highland Medical Center, Shreveport, LA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Anesthesia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anesthesia_thumb.jpg)Anesthesia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

