Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000183.htm    
                                Description: You are scheduled to have a surgery or procedure. You will need to talk with your doctor about the type of anesthesia that will be best for you. Below are some questions you may want to ask your doctor.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Anesthesia - what to ask your doctor - adult

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000183.htm

# Anesthesia - what to ask your doctor - adult

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You are scheduled to have a surgery or procedure. You will need to talk with
your doctor about the type of anesthesia that will be best for you. Below are
some questions you may want to ask your doctor.

## Questions

Which type of anesthesia is best for me based on the procedure that I am
having?

      * General anesthesia
      * Spinal or epidural anesthesia
      * Conscious sedation

When do I need to stop eating or drinking before having the anesthesia?

Is it alright to come alone to the hospital, or should someone come with me?
Can I drive myself home?

If I am taking the following medicines, what should I do?

      * Aspirin, ibuprofen (Motrin, Advil), naproxen (Aleve), other arthritis drugs, vitamin E, clopidogrel (Plavix), warfarin (Coumadin), and any other blood thinners
      * Sildenafil (Viagra), vardenafil (Levitra), or tadalafil (Cialis)
      * Vitamins, minerals, herbs, or other supplements
      * Medicines for heart problems, lung problems, diabetes, or allergies
      * Other medicines I am supposed to take everyday

If I have asthma, COPD, diabetes, high blood pressure, heart disease, or any
other medical problems, do I need to do anything special before I have
anesthesia?

If I am nervous, can I get medicine to relax my nerves before going into the
operating room?

After I receive the anesthesia:

      * Will I be awake or aware of what is happening?
      * Will I feel any pain?
      * Will someone be watching and making sure I am ok?

After the anesthesia wears off:

      * How soon will I wake up? How soon before I can get up and move around?
      * How long will I need to stay?
      * Will I have any pain?
      * Will I be sick to my stomach?

If I have spinal or epidural anesthesia, will I have a headache afterward?

What if I have more questions after the surgery? Who can I talk to?

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about anesthesia - adult

## References

Apfelbaum JL, Silverstein JH, Chung FF, et al. Practice guidelines for
postanesthetic care: an updated report by the American Society of
Anesthesiologists Task Force on postanesthetic care. _Anesthesiology_.
2013;118(2):291-307. PMID 23364567 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23364567.

Hernandez A, Sherwood ER. Anesthesiology principles, pain management, and
conscious sedation. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL,
eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis of Modern Surgical
Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 14.

## Read More

      * Conscious sedation for surgical procedures
      * General anesthesia
      * Spinal and epidural anesthesia

## Review Date 9/3/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Anesthesia

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

