Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001315.htm    
                                Description: Malignant hyperthermia (MH) is a disease that causes a fast rise in body temperature and severe muscle contractions when someone with MH gets general anesthesia. MH is passed down through families.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Malignant hyperthermia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001315.htm

# Malignant hyperthermia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Malignant hyperthermia (MH) is a disease that causes a fast rise in body
temperature and severe muscle contractions when someone with MH gets general
anesthesia. MH is passed down through families.

Hyperthermia means high body temperature. This condition is not the same as
hyperthermia from medical emergencies such as heat stroke or infection.

## Causes

MH is inherited. OnlyÂ one parent has to carry the disease for a child to
inherit the condition.

It may occur with some other inherited muscle diseases, such as multiminicore
myopathy and central core disease.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of MH include:

      * Bleeding
      * Dark brown urine (due to a muscle protein called myoglobin in the urine)
      * Muscle ache without an obvious cause, such as exercise or injury
      * Muscle rigidity and stiffness
      * Rise in body temperature to 105Â°F (40.6Â°C) or higher 

## Exams and Tests

MH is often discovered after a person is given anesthesia during surgery.

There may be a family history of MH or unexplained death during anesthesia.

The person may have a fast and often irregular heart rate.

Tests for MH may include:

      * Blood clotting studies (PT, or prothrombin time; PTT, or partial thrombloplastin time)
      * Blood chemistry panel, including CK (creatinine kinase, which is higher in the blood when muscle is destroyed during a bout of the illness)
      * Genetic testing to look for defects in the genes that are linked with the disease
      * Muscle biopsy
      * Urine myoglobin (muscle protein) 

## Treatment

During an episode of MH, a medicine called dantrolene is often given. Wrapping
the person in a cooling blanket can help reduce fever and the risk of serious
complications.

To preserve kidney function during an episode, the person may receive fluids
through a vein.

## Support Groups

These resources can provide more information about MH:

      * Malignant Hyperthermia Association of the United States -- www.mhaus.org
      * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/malignant-hyperthermia
      * NIH Genetics Home Reference -- ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/malignant-hyperthermia

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Repeated or untreated episodes can cause kidney failure. Untreated episodes
can be fatal.

## Possible Complications

These serious complications can occur:

      * Amputation
      * Breakdown of muscle tissue 
      * Swelling of the hands and feet and problems with blood flow and nerve function (compartment syndrome)
      * Death
      * Abnormal blood clotting and bleeding 
      * Heart rhythm problems
      * Kidney failure
      * Buildup of acid in the body fluids (metabolic acidosis)
      * Fluid buildup in the lungs
      * Weak or deformed muscles (myopathy or muscular dystrophy)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you need surgery, tell both your surgeon and anesthesiologist before
surgery if:

      * You know that you or a member of your family has had problems with general anesthesia
      * You know you have a family history of MH

Using certain medicines can prevent the complications of MH during surgery.

## Prevention

Tell your health care provider before having surgery with general anesthesia,
if you or anyone in your family has MH.

Avoid stimulant drugs such as cocaine, amphetamine (speed), and ecstasy. These
drugs may cause problems similar to MH in people who are prone to this
condition.

Genetic counseling is recommended for anyone with a family history of
myopathy, muscular dystrophy, or MH.

## Alternative Names

Hyperthermia - malignant; Hyperpyrexia - malignant; MH

## References

American Association of Nurse Anesthetists. Malignant hyperthermia crisis
preparedness and treatment: position statement.
sharepoint.aana.com/resources2/professionalpractice/Pages/Malignant-
Hyperthermia-Crisis-Preparedness-and-Treatment.aspx. Updated April 2015.
Accessed May 6, 2019.

Kulaylat MN, Dayton MT. Surgical complications. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 12.

Zhou J, Bose D, Allen PD, Pessah IN. Malignant hyperthermia and muscle-related
disorders. In: Miller RD, ed. _Miller's Anesthesia_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 43.

## Review Date 4/8/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Anesthesia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anesthesia_thumb.jpg)Anesthesia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

