Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000184.htm    
                                Description: Your child is scheduled to have a surgery or procedure. You will need to talk with your child    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Anesthesia - what to ask your doctor - child

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000184.htm

# Anesthesia - what to ask your doctor - child

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your child is scheduled to have a surgery or procedure. You will need to talk
with your child's doctor about the type of anesthesia that will be best for
your child. Below are some questions you may want to ask.

## Questions

BEFORE ANESTHESIA

Which type of anesthesia is best for my child and the procedure that my child
is having?

      * General anesthesia
      * Spinal or epidural anesthesia
      * Conscious sedation

When does my child need to stop eating or drinking before the anesthesia? What
if my child is breastfeeding?

When do my child and I need to get to the hospital on the day of the surgery?
Is the rest of our family allowed to be there too?

If my child is taking the following medicines, what should I do?

      * Aspirin, ibuprofen (Motrin, Advil), naproxen (Aleve), other arthritis drugs, vitamin E, warfarin (Coumadin), and any other drugs that make it hard for the child's blood to clot
      * Vitamins, minerals, herbs, or other supplements
      * Medicines for heart problems, lung problems, diabetes, allergies, or seizures
      * Other medicines the child is supposed to take everyday 

If my child has asthma, diabetes, seizures, heart disease, or any other
medical problems, do I need to do anything special before my child has
anesthesia?

Can my child take a tour of the surgery and recovery areas of the hospital
before the surgery?

DURING ANESTHESIA

      * Will my child be awake or aware of what is happening?
      * Will my child feel any pain?
      * Will someone be watching to make sure my child is OK?
      * How long may I stay with my child? 

AFTER ANESTHESIA

      * How soon will my child wake up?
      * When can I see my child?
      * How soon before my child can get up and move around?
      * How long will my child need to stay?
      * Will my child have any pain?
      * Will my child have an upset stomach?
      * If my child had spinal or epidural anesthesia, will my child have a headache afterwards?
      * What if I have more questions after the surgery? Who can I contact? 

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about anesthesia - child

## References

American Society of Anesthesiologists website. Statement on practice
recommendations for pediatric anesthesia. www.asahq.org/standards-and-
guidelines/statement-on-practice-recommendations-for-pediatric-anesthesia.
Updated October 26, 2016. Accessed November 20, 2018.

Cote CJ. Pediatric anesthesia. In: Miller RD, ed. _Miller's Anesthesia_. 8th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 93.

## Read More

      * Conscious sedation for surgical procedures
      * General anesthesia
      * Scoliosis
      * Spinal and epidural anesthesia

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Anesthesia

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

