Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007409.htm    
                                Description: Conscious sedation is a combination of medicines to help you relax (a sedative) and to block pain (an anesthetic) during a medical or dental procedure. You will probably stay awake, but may not be able    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Conscious sedation for surgical procedures

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007409.htm

# Conscious sedation for surgical procedures

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Conscious sedation is a combination of medicines to help you relax (a
sedative) and to block pain (an anesthetic) during a medical or dental
procedure. You will probably stay awake, but may not be able to speak.

Conscious sedation lets you recover quickly and return to your everyday
activities soon after your procedure.

## Description

A nurse, doctor, or dentist, will give you conscious sedation in the hospital
or outpatient clinic. Most of the time, it will not be an anesthesiologist.
The medicine will wear off quickly, so it is used for short, uncomplicated
procedures.

You may receive the medicine through an intravenous line (IV, in a vein) or a
shot into a muscle. You will begin to feel drowsy and relaxed very quickly. If
your doctor gives you the medicine to swallow, you will feel the effects after
about 30 to 60 minutes.

Your breathing will slow and your blood pressure may drop a little. Your
health care provider will monitor you during the procedure to make sure you
are OK. This provider will stay with you at all times during the procedure.

You should not need help with your breathing. But you may receive extra oxygen
through a mask or IV fluids through a catheter (tube) into a vein.

You may fall asleep, but you will wake up easily to respond to people in the
room. You may be able to respond to verbal cues. After conscious sedation, you
may feel drowsy and not remember much about your procedure.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Conscious sedation is safe and effective for people who need minor surgery or
a procedure to diagnose a condition.

Some of the tests and procedures that conscious sedation may be used for are:

      * Breast biopsy
      * Dental prosthetic or reconstructive surgery
      * Minor bone fracture repair
      * Minor foot surgery
      * Minor skin surgery
      * Plastic or reconstructive surgery
      * Procedures to diagnose and treat some stomach (upper endoscopy), colon (colonoscopy), lung (bronchoscopy), and bladder (cystoscopy) conditions 

## Risks

Conscious sedation is usually safe. However, if you are given too much of the
medicine, problems with your breathing may occur. A provider will be watching
you during the whole procedure.

Providers always have special equipment to help you with your breathing, if
needed. Only certain qualified health professionals can provide conscious
sedation.

## Before the Procedure

Tell the provider:

      * If you are or could be pregnant
      * What medicines you are taking, even drugs, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription 

During the days before your procedure:

      * Tell your provider about allergies or health conditions you have, what medicines you are taking, and what anesthesia or sedation you have had before.
      * You may have blood or urine tests and a physical exam.
      * Arrange for a responsible adult to drive you to and from the hospital or clinic for the procedure.
      * If you smoke, try to stop. Smoking increases the risk for problems such as slow healing. Ask your provider for help quitting. 

On the day of your procedure:

      * Follow instructions about when to stop eating and drinking.
      * DO NOT drink alcohol the night before and the day of your procedure.
      * Take the drugs your doctor told you to take with a small sip of water.
      * Arrive at the hospital or clinic on time. 

## After the Procedure

After conscious sedation, you will feel sleepy and may have a headache or feel
sick to your stomach. During recovery, your finger will be clipped to a
special device (pulse oximeter) to check the oxygen levels in your blood. Your
blood pressure will be checked with an arm cuff about every 15 minutes.

You should be able to go home 1 to 2 hours after your procedure.

When you are home:

      * Eat a healthy meal to restore your energy.
      * You should be able to return to your everyday activities the next day.
      * Avoid driving, operating machinery, drinking alcohol, and making legal decisions for at least 24 hours.
      * Check with your doctor before taking any medicines or herbal supplements.
      * If you had surgery, follow your doctor's instructions for recovery and wound care. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Conscious sedation is generally safe, and is an option for procedures or
diagnostic tests.

## Alternative Names

Anesthesia - conscious sedation

## Patient Instructions

      * Anesthesia - what to ask your doctor - adult
      * Anesthesia - what to ask your doctor - child

## References

Hernandez A, Sherwood ER. Anesthesiology principles, pain management, and
conscious sedation. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL,
eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis of Modern Surgical
Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 14.

Vuyk J, Sitsen E, Reekers M. Intravenous anesthetics. In: Miller RD, ed.
_Miller's Anesthesia_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap
30.

## Review Date 3/12/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Anesthesia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anesthesia_thumb.jpg)Anesthesia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

