Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003733.htm    
                                Description: A colonic tissue culture is a lab test to check for the cause of disease. The sample of tissue for the test is taken from the large intestine. The cause may be bacteria, fungi, or viruses.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Culture - colonic tissue

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003733.htm

# Culture - colonic tissue

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A colonic tissue culture is a lab test to check for the cause of disease. The
sample of tissue for the test is taken from the large intestine. The cause may
be bacteria, fungi, or viruses.

## How the Test is Performed

The health care provider removes a piece of tissue from your large intestine.
This is done during a colonoscopy.

      * The sample is sent to a lab.
      * It is placed in a special dish that contains a gel. Bacteria and other organisms can grow in this gel. The dish is then stored at a certain temperature.
      * The lab team checks the sample daily. They check to see if bacteria, viruses, or fungi have grown.

If certain germs grow, more tests will be done to identify them. This helps
decide the best treatment.

## How to Prepare for the Test

There is no specific preparation needed for a culture.

## How the Test will Feel

Once the sample is taken, the culture does not involve you. Therefore, there
is no pain.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may order this test if you have signs or symptoms of a large
intestine infection. A culture is often done when other tests such as a stool
culture could not identify the cause of infection.

## Normal Results

A normal result means that no disease-causing organisms have grown in the lab
dish.

Some "healthy" bacteria, called bowel flora, are normally found in the gut.
The growth of such bacteria during this test does not mean there is an
infection.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your provider about your test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result means that disease-causing organisms have grown in the lab
dish. These organisms may include:

      *  _Clostridium difficile_ bacteria
      * Cytomegalovirus 
      * _Mycobacterium tuberculosis_ bacteria
      * Salmonella bacteria
      * Shigella bacteria 

These organisms may lead to diarrhea or colon infections.

## Risks

There are no risks in a colonic tissue culture.

## Alternative Names

Colonic tissue culture

## Images

      * ![Colonoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8751t.jpg)Colonoscopy
      * ![Colon culture](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9246t.jpg)Colon culture

## References

DuPont HL. Approach to the patient with suspected enteric infection. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 283.

Hall GS, Woods GL. Medical bacteriology. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 58.

Haines CF, Sears CL. Infectious enteritis and proctocolitis. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 110.

Semrad CE. Approach to the patient with diarrhea and malabsorption. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 140.

Siddiqi HA, Salwen MJ, Shaikh MF, Bowne WB. Laboratory diagnosis of
gastrointestinal and pancreatic disorders. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 22.

## Review Date 4/11/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Colonic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColonicDiseases_thumb.jpg)Colonic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

