Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000238.htm    
                                Description: Angiodysplasia of the colon is swollen, fragile blood vessels in the colon. This can result in blood loss from the gastrointestinal (GI) tract.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Angiodysplasia of the colon

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000238.htm

# Angiodysplasia of the colon

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Angiodysplasia of the colon is swollen, fragile blood vessels in the colon.
This can result in blood loss from the gastrointestinal (GI) tract.

## Causes

Angiodysplasia of the colon is mostly related to the aging and breakdown of
the blood vessels. It is more common in older adults. It is almost always seen
on the right side of the colon.

Most likely, the problem develops out of normal spasms of the colon that cause
the blood vessels in the area to enlarge. When this swelling becomes severe, a
tiny passageway develops between a small artery and vein. This is called an
arteriovenous malformation. Bleeding can occur from this area in the colon
wall.

Rarely, angiodysplasia of the colon is related to other diseases of the blood
vessels. One of these is Osler-Weber-Rendu syndrome. The condition is not
related to cancer. It is also different than diverticulosis, which is a more
common cause of intestinal bleeding in older adults.

## Symptoms

The symptoms vary.

Older people may have symptoms such as:

      * Weakness
      * Fatigue
      * Shortness of breath due to anemia 

They may not have bleeding directly from the colon.

Other people may have bouts of mild or severe bleeding in which bright red or
black blood comes from the rectum.

There is no pain associated with angiodysplasia.

## Exams and Tests

Tests that may be done to diagnose this condition include:

      * Angiography (only useful if there is active bleeding into the colon)
      * Complete blood count (CBC) to check for anemia
      * Colonoscopy
      * Stool test for occult (hidden) blood (a positive test result suggests bleeding from the colon) 

## Treatment

It is important to find the cause of bleeding in the colon and how fast the
blood is being lost. You may need to be admitted to a hospital. Fluids may be
given through a vein, and blood products may be required.

Other treatment may be needed once the source of bleeding is found. In most
cases, the bleeding stops on its own without treatment.

If treatment is needed, it may involve:

      * Angiography to help block the blood vessel that is bleeding or to deliver medicine to help cause the blood vessels to tighten to stop the bleeding 
      * Burning (cauterizing) the site of the bleed with heat or a laser using a colonoscope 

In some cases, surgery is the only option. You may need the entire right side
of the colon (right hemicolectomy) removed if heavy bleeding continues, even
after other treatments have been tried. Medicines (thalidomide and estrogens)
may be used to help control the disease in some people.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People who have bleeding related to this condition despite having had
colonoscopy, angiography, or surgery are likely to have more bleeding in the
future.

The outlook remains good if the bleeding is controlled.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Anemia
      * Death from excessive blood loss
      * Side effects from treatment
      * Severe loss of blood from the GI tract 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health provider if rectal bleeding occurs.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention.

## Alternative Names

Vascular ectasia of the colon; Colonic arteriovenous malformation; Hemorrhage
- angiodysplasia; Bleed - angiodysplasia

## Images

      * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Brandt LJ, Aroniadis OC. Vascular disorders of the gastrointestinal tract. In:
Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtranâs
Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease._ 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 37.

Hauser SC. Vascular diseases of the gastrointestinal tract. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine._ 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 143.

## Review Date 9/29/2017

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Colonic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColonicDiseases_thumb.jpg)Colonic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

