Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001125.htm    
                                Description: Colitis is swelling (inflammation) of the large intestine (colon).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Colitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001125.htm

# Colitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Colitis is swelling (inflammation) of the large intestine (colon).

## Causes

Most of the time, the cause of colitis is unknown.

Causes of colitis include:

      * Infections caused by a virus or a parasite
      * Food poisoning due to bacteria
      * Crohn disease
      * Lack of blood flow (ischemic colitis)
      * Past radiation to the large bowel (radiation stricture)
      * Necrotizing enterocolitis in newborns
      * Pseudomembranous colitis caused by _Clostridium difficile_ infection

## Symptoms

Symptoms can include:

      * Abdominal pain and bloatingÂ thatÂ may be constant or come and go
      * Bloody stoolsÂ 
      * Constant urge to have a bowel movement (tenesmus)
      * Dehydration
      * Diarrhea
      * Fever 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. You will also be asked
questions about your symptoms, such as:

      * How long have you had the symptoms?
      * How severe is your pain?
      * How often do you have pain and how long does it last?
      * How often do you have diarrhea?
      * Have you been traveling?
      * Have you been taking antibiotics recently?

The provider can diagnose colitis by inserting a flexible tube into the rectum
(flexible sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy) and looking at certain areas of the
colon. You may have biopsies taken during this exam. Biopsies may show changes
related to inflammation. This can help determine the cause of colitis.

Other studies that can identify colitis include:

      * CT scan of the abdomen
      * MRI of the abdomen
      * Barium enema
      * Stool culture
      * Stool examination for ova and parasites

## Treatment

Your treatment will depend on the cause of the disease.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook will vary, depending on the cause of the problem.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Bleeding with bowel movements
      * Perforation of the colon
      * Toxic megacolon
      * Sore (ulceration)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms such as:

      * Abdominal pain that does not get better
      * Blood in the stool or stools that look black
      * Diarrhea or vomiting that does not go away
      * Swollen abdomen

## Images

      * ![Ulcerative colitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19308t.jpg)Ulcerative colitis
      * ![Large intestine](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8834t.jpg)Large intestine
      * ![Large intestine \(colon\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19220t.jpg)Large intestine (colon)
      * ![Crohn disease, X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1158t.jpg)Crohn disease - X-ray

## References

Osterman MT, Lichtenstein GR. Ulcerative colitis. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtranâs Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 116.

Wald A. Other diseases of the colon and rectum. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtranâs Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 128.

## Review Date 7/11/2017

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Colonic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColonicDiseases_thumb.jpg)Colonic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

