Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000807.htm    
                                Description: Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a nervous system problem that causes you to feel an unstoppable urge to get up and pace or walk. You feel uncomfortable unless you move your legs. Moving stops the unpleasant    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Restless legs syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000807.htm

# Restless legs syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a nervous system problem that causes you to
feel an unstoppable urge to get up and pace or walk. You feel uncomfortable
unless you move your legs. Moving stops the unpleasant feeling for a short
time.

This disorder is also known as restless legs syndrome/Willis-Ekbom disease
(RLS/WED).

## Causes

No one knows exactly what causes RLS. It may be due to a problem with the way
brain cells use dopamine. Dopamine is a brain chemical that helps with muscle
movement.

RLS may be linked to some other conditions. It may occur more often in people
with:

      * Chronic kidney disease
      * Diabetes
      * Iron, magnesium, or folic acid deficiency
      * Parkinson disease
      * Peripheral neuropathy
      * Pregnancy
      * Multiple sclerosis 

RLS may also occur in people who:

      * Use certain medicines such as calcium channel blockers, lithium, or neuroleptics
      * Are stopping sedative use
      * Use caffeine 

RLS occurs most often in middle-aged and older adults. Women are more likely
to have RLS than men.

RLS is commonly passed down in families. This may be a factor when symptoms
start at a younger age.

## Symptoms

RLS leads to unpleasant feelings in your lower legs. These feelings cause an
unstoppable urge to move your legs. You may feel:

      * Creeping and crawling
      * Bubbling, pulling, or tugging
      * Burning or searing
      * Aching, throbbing, or pain
      * Itching or gnawing 
      * Tingling, pins and needles in the feet

These sensations:

      * Are worse at night when you lie down to the point that it may interfere with sleep and keep the patient awake
      * Sometimes occur during the day
      * Start or get worse when you lie down or sit for long periods of time
      * May last for 1 hour or longer
      * Sometimes also occur in the upper legs, feet, or arms
      * Are relieved when you move or stretch as long as you keep moving 

Symptoms can make it difficult to sit during air or car travel, or through
classes or meetings.

Stress or emotional upset can make symptoms worse.

Most people with RLS have rhythmic leg movements when they sleep. This
condition is called periodic limb movement disorder.

All of these symptoms make it hard to sleep. Lack of sleep can lead to:

      * Daytime sleepiness
      * Anxiety or depression
      * Confusion
      * Difficulty thinking clearly 

## Exams and Tests

There is no specific test for RLS. Your health care provider will take your
medical history and do a physical exam. You may have blood tests and other
exams to rule out conditions that can cause similar symptoms.

Usually, your provider will determine whether you have RLS based on your
symptoms.

## Treatment

RLS can't be cured. However, treatment can help relieve symptoms.

Certain lifestyle changes may help you cope with the condition and ease
symptoms.

      * Get enough sleep. Go to bed and wake up at the same time every day. Make sure your bed and bedroom are comfortable.
      * Try using hot or cold packs on your legs.
      * Help your muscles relax with gentle stretches, massage, and warm baths.
      * Take time out of your day to just relax. Try yoga, meditation, or other ways to ease tension.
      * Avoid caffeine, alcohol, and tobacco. They may make symptoms worse.

Your provider may prescribe medicines to treat RLS.

Some medicines help control symptoms:

      * Pramipexole (Mirapex)
      * Ropinirole (Requip)
      * Low doses of narcotics

Other medicines can help you sleep:

      * Sinemet (combination carbidopa-levodopa), an anti-Parkinson medicine
      * Gabapentin and pregabalin
      * Clonazepam or other tranquilizers

Medicines to help you sleep may cause daytime sleepiness.

Treating conditions with similar symptoms such as peripheral neuropathy or
iron deficiency can also help relieve symptoms.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

RLS is not dangerous. However, it can be uncomfortable, making it hard to
sleep and affecting your quality of life.

## Possible Complications

You may not be able to sleep well (insomnia).

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if:

      * You have symptoms of RLS
      * Your sleep is disrupted
      * Symptoms get worse

## Prevention

There is no way to prevent RLS.

## Alternative Names

Willis-Ekbom disease; Nocturnal myoclonus; RLS; Akathisia

## Images

      * ![Nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9693t.jpg)Nervous system

## References

Allen RP, Montplaisir J, Walters AS, Ferini-Strambi L, Hogl B. Restless legs
syndrome and periodic limb movements during sleep. In: Kryger M, Roth T,
Dement WC, eds. _Principles and Practice of Sleep Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 95.

Chokroverty S, Avidan AY. Sleep and its disorders. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 102.

Winkelman JW, Armstrong MJ, Allen RP, et al. Practice guideline summary:
treatment of restless legs syndrome in adults: report of the Guideline
Development, Dissemination, and Implementation Subcommittee of the American
Academy of Neurology. _Neurology_. 2016;87(24):2585-2593. PMID: 27856776
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27856776.

## Review Date 6/23/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Restless Legs](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RestlessLeg_thumb.jpg)Restless
Legs _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

