Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000831.htm    
                                Description: Vitiligo is a skin condition in which there is a loss of color (pigment) from areas of skin. This results in uneven white patches that have no pigment, but the skin feels like normal.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vitiligo

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000831.htm

# Vitiligo

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Vitiligo is a skin condition in which there is a loss of color (pigment) from
areas of skin. This results in uneven white patches that have no pigment, but
the skin feels like normal.

## Causes

Vitiligo seems to occur when immune cells destroy the cells that make brown
pigment (melanocytes). This destruction is thought to be due to an autoimmune
problem. An autoimmune disorder occurs when the body's immune system attacks
and destroys healthy body tissue by mistake. The exact cause of vitiligo is
unknown.

Vitiligo may appear at any age. There is an increased rate of the condition in
some families.

Vitiligo is associated with other autoimmune diseases:

      * Addison disease (disorder that occurs when the adrenal glands do not produce enough hormones)
      * Thyroid disease
      * Pernicious anemia (decrease in red blood cells that occurs when the intestines cannot properly absorb vitamin B12)
      * Diabetes

## Symptoms

Flat areas of normal-feeling skin without any pigment appear suddenly or
gradually. These areas have a darker border. The edges are well defined, but
irregular.

Vitiligo most often affects the face, elbows and knees, back of the hands and
feet, and genitals. It affects both sides of the body equally.

Vitiligo is more noticeable in darker-skinned people because of the contrast
of white patches against dark skin.

No other skin changes occur.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider can examine your skin to confirm the diagnosis.

Sometimes, the provider uses a Wood lamp. This is a handheld ultraviolet light
that causes the areas of skin with less pigment to glow bright white.

In some cases, a skin biopsy may be needed to rule out other causes of pigment
loss. Your provider may also perform blood tests to check the levels of
thyroid or other hormones, glucose level, and vitamin B12.

## Treatment

Vitiligo is difficult to treat. Early treatment options include the following:

      * Phototherapy, a medical procedure in which your skin is carefully exposed to limited amounts of ultraviolet light. Phototherapy may be given alone, or after you take a drug that makes your skin sensitive to light. A dermatologist performs this treatment.
      * Certain lasers may help the skin repigment.
      * Medicines applied to the skin, such as corticosteroid creams or ointments, immunosuppressant creams or ointments such as pimecrolimus (Elidel) and tacrolimus (Protopic), or topical drugs such as methoxsalen (Oxsoralen) may also help.

Skin may be moved (grafted) from normally pigmented areas and placed onto
areas where there is pigment loss.

Several cover-up makeups or skin dyes can mask vitiligo. Ask your provider for
the names of these products.

In extreme cases when most of the body is affected, the remaining skin that
still has pigment may be depigmented, or bleached. This is a permanent change
that is used as a last option.

It is important to remember that skin without pigment is at greater risk for
sun damage. Be sure to apply a broad-spectrum (UVA and UVB), high-SPF
sunscreen or sunblock. Sunscreen can also be helpful for making the condition
less noticeable, because unaffected skin may not darken in the sun. Use other
safeguards against sun exposure, such as wearing a hat with a broad rim and
long sleeve shirt and pants.

## Support Groups

More information about vitiligo can be found at:

      * American Vitiligo Research Foundation - www.avrf.org
      * Vitiligo Support International - www.vitiligosupport.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The course of vitiligo varies and is unpredictable. Some areas may regain
normal pigment (coloring), but other new areas of pigment loss may appear.
Skin that is repigmented may be slightly lighter or darker than the
surrounding skin. Pigment loss may get worse over time.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if areas of your skin lose their
coloring for no reason (for example, there was no injury to the skin).

## Alternative Names

Autoimmune disorder - vitiligo

## Images

      * ![Vitiligo](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10030t.jpg)Vitiligo
      * ![Vitiligo - drug induced](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2486t.jpg)Vitiligo - drug induced
      * ![Vitiligo on the face](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2487t.jpg)Vitiligo on the face
      * ![Vitiligo on the back and arm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2673t.jpg)Vitiligo on the back and arm

## References

Habif TP. Light-related diseases and disorders of pigmentation. In: Habif TP,
ed. _Clinical Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 19.

Passeron T, Ortonne J-P. Vitiligo and other disorders of hypopigmentation. In:
Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 66.

Patterson JW. Disorders of pigmentation. In: Patterson JW, ed. _Weedon's Skin
Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone;
2016:chap 10.

## Review Date 5/24/2018

Updated by: Kevin Berman, MD, PhD, Atlanta Center for Dermatologic Disease,
Atlanta, GA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 11-19-18: Editorial update.

![Vitiligo](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Vitiligo2_thumb.jpg)Vitiligo _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

