Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000915.htm    
                                Description: Endometriosis occurs when cells from the lining of your womb (uterus) grow in other areas of your body. This can cause pain, heavy bleeding, bleeding between periods, and problems getting pregnant (infertility).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Endometriosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000915.htm

# Endometriosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Endometriosis occurs when cells from the lining of your womb (uterus) grow in
other areas of your body. This can cause pain, heavy bleeding, bleeding
between periods, and problems getting pregnant (infertility).

![Endometriosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17061.jpg)

## Causes

Every month, a woman's ovaries produce hormones that tell the cells lining the
uterus to swell and get thicker. Your uterus sheds these cells along with
blood and tissue through your vagina when you have your period.

Endometriosis occurs when these cells grow outside the uterus in other parts
of your body. This tissue may attach on your:

      * Ovaries
      * Fallopian tubes
      * Bowel
      * Rectum
      * Bladder
      * Lining of your pelvic area 

It can grow in other areas of the body, too.

These growths stay in your body, and like the cells in the lining of your
uterus, these growths react to the hormones from your ovaries. They grow and
bleed when you get your period. Over time, the growths may add more tissue and
blood. The buildup of blood and tissue in your body leads to pain and other
symptoms.

No one knows what causes endometriosis. One idea is that when you get your
period, the cells may travel backwards through the fallopian tubes into the
pelvis. Once there, the cells attach and grow. However, this backward period
flow occurs in many women. Researchers think that the immune system plays a
role in causing endometriosis in women with the condition.

Endometriosis is common. It occurs in about 10% of women of reproductive age.
Sometimes, it may run in families. Endometriosis probably starts when a woman
begins having periods. However, it usually is not diagnosed until ages 25 to
35.

You are more likely to develop endometriosis if you:

      * Have a mother or sister with endometriosis
      * Started your period at a young age
      * Never had children
      * Have frequent periods, or they last 7 or more days 

## Symptoms

Pain is the main symptom of endometriosis. You may have:

      * Painful periods -- Cramps or pain in your lower belly may begin a week or two before your period. Cramps may be steady and range from dull to severe.
      * Pain during or after sexual intercourse.
      * Pain with urination.
      * Pain with bowel movements.
      * Long-term pelvic or low back pain that may occur at any time and last for 6 months or more. 

Other symptoms of endometriosis include:

      * Heavy menstrual bleeding or bleeding between periods
      * Infertility (difficulty getting or staying pregnant) 

You may not have any symptoms. Some women with a lot of tissue in their pelvis
have no pain at all, while some women with milder disease have severe pain.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical exam, including a pelvic
exam. You may have one of these tests to help diagnose the disease:

      * Transvaginal ultrasound
      * Pelvic laparoscopy
      * Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 
![Pelvic laparoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1109.jpg)

## Treatment

Learning how to manage your symptoms can make it easier to live with
endometriosis.

What type of treatment you have depends on:

      * Your age
      * Severity of your symptoms
      * Severity of the disease
      * Whether you want children in the future 

There is currently no cure for endometriosis. There are different treatment
options.

PAIN RELIEVERS

If you have mild symptoms, you may be able to manage cramping and pain with:

      * Exercise and relaxation techniques.
      * Over-the-counter pain relievers \-- These include ibuprofen (Advil), naproxen (Aleve), and acetaminophen (Tylenol).
      * Prescription painkillers, if needed, for more severe pain.
      * Regular exams every 6 to 12 months so your doctor can assess the disease. 

HORMONE THERAPY

These medicines can stop endometriosis from getting worse. They may be given
as pills, nasal spray, or shots. Only women who are not trying get pregnant
should have this therapy. Hormone therapy will prevent you from getting
pregnant. Once you stop therapy, you can get pregnant again.

Birth control pills -- With this therapy, you take the hormone pills (not the
inactive or placebo pills) for 6 to 9 months continuously. Taking these pills
relieves most symptoms. However, it does not treat any damage that has already
occurred.

Progesterone pills or injections -- This treatment helps shrink growths. Side
effects may include weight gain and depression.

 ****

Gonadotropin-agonist medicines -- These medicines stop your ovaries from
producing the hormone estrogen. This causes a menopause-like state. Side
effects include hot flashes, vaginal dryness, and mood changes. Treatment is
often limited to 6 months because it can weaken your bones. Your provider may
give you small doses of hormone to relieve symptoms during this treatment.
This is known as 'add-back' therapy. It may also help protect against bone
loss, while not triggering growth of the endometriosis.

SURGERY

Your provider may recommend surgery if you have severe pain that does not get
better with other treatments.

      * Laparoscopy helps diagnose the disease and can also remove growths and scar tissue. Because only a small cut is made in your belly, you will heal faster than other types of surgery.
      * Laparotomy involves making a large incision (cut) in your belly to remove growths and scar tissue. This is major surgery, so healing takes longer.
      * Laparoscopy or laparotomy may be a good option if you want to become pregnant, because they treat the disease and leave your organs in place.
      * Hysterectomy is surgery to remove your uterus, fallopian tubes, and ovaries. Having both your ovaries removed means entering menopause. You would only have this surgery if you have severe symptoms which did not get better with other treatments and do not want to have children in the future. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

There is no cure for endometriosis. Hormone therapy can help relieve symptoms,
but symptoms often return when therapy is stopped. Surgical treatment may help
relieve symptoms for years. However, not all women with endometriosis are
helped by these treatments.

Once you enter menopause, endometriosis is unlikely to cause problems.Â

## Possible Complications

Endometriosis can lead to problems getting pregnant. However, most women with
mild symptoms can still get pregnant. Laparoscopy to remove growths and scar
tissue may help improve your chances of becoming pregnant. If it does not, you
may want to consider fertility treatments.

Other complications of endometriosis include:

      * Long-term pelvic pain that interferes with social and work activities
      * Large cysts in the pelvis that may break open (rupture)

In rare cases, endometriosis tissue may block the intestines or urinary tract.

Very rarely, cancer may develop in the areas of tissue growth after menopause.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You have symptoms of endometriosis
      * Back pain or other symptoms reoccurring after endometriosis is treated 

You may want to get screened for endometriosis if:

      * Your mother or sister has the disease
      * You are unable to become pregnant after trying for 1 year 

## Prevention

Birth control pills may help to prevent or slow down the development of the
endometriosis. Birth control pills used as treatment for endometriosis work
best when taken continuously and not stopped to allow a menstrual period. They
may be used for young women in late adolescence or early 20s with painful
periods that may be due to endometriosis.

## Alternative Names

Pelvic pain - endometriosis; Endometrioma

## Patient Instructions

      * Hysterectomy - abdominal - discharge
      * Hysterectomy - laparoscopic - discharge
      * Hysterectomy - vaginal - discharge 

## Images

      * ![Pelvic laparoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1109t.jpg)Pelvic laparoscopy
      * ![Endometriosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17061t.jpg)Endometriosis
      * ![Abnormal menstrual periods](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17087t.jpg)Abnormal menstrual periods

## References

Advincula A, Truong M, Lobo RA. Endometriosis: etiology, pathology, diagnosis,
management. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds.
_Comprehensive Gynecology._ 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 19.

Burney RO, Giudice LC. Endometriosis. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser
DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric._ 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 130.

Kuhlmann Z. Endometriosis. In: Kellerman RD, Rakel DP, eds. _Conn's Current
Therapy 2019_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:1123-1126.Â

## Review Date 2/13/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update
04/08/2019.

![Endometriosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Endometriosis2_thumb.jpg)Endometriosis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

