Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000714.htm    
                                Description: You have a condition called endometriosis. Symptoms of endometriosis include:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Living with endometriosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000714.htm

# Living with endometriosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You have a condition called endometriosis. Symptoms of endometriosis include:

      * Heavy menstrual bleeding
      * Bleeding between periods
      * Problems getting pregnant 

Having this condition can interfere with your social and work life.

No one knows what causes endometriosis. There is also no cure. However, there
are different ways to treat the symptoms. These treatments can also help
relieve menstrual pain.

Learning how to manage your symptoms can make it easier to live with
endometriosis.

## Medicines to Treat Endometriosis

Your health care provider may prescribe different types of hormone therapy.
These may be birth control pills or injections. Be sure to follow your
provider's directions for taking these medicines. DO NOT stop taking them
without talking with your provider. Be sure to tell your provider about any
side effects.

Over-the-counter pain relievers can reduce the pain of endometriosis. These
include:

      * Ibuprofen (Advil)
      * Naproxen (Aleve)
      * Acetaminophen (Tylenol) 

If the pain is worse during your periods, try starting these medicines 1 to 2
days before your period begins.

You may be receiving hormone therapy to prevent the endometriosis from
becoming worse, such as:

      * Birth control pills.
      * Medicines that cause a menopause-like state. Side effects include hot flashes, vaginal dryness, and mood changes. 

## Self-care

Apply a hot water bottle or heating pad to your lower stomach. This can get
blood flowing and relax your muscles. Warm baths also may help relieve pain.

Lie down and rest. Place a pillow under your knees when lying on your back. If
you prefer to lie on your side, pull your knees up toward your chest. These
positions help take the pressure off your back.

Get regular exercise. Exercise helps improve blood flow. It also triggers your
body's natural painkillers, called endorphins.

Eat a balanced, healthy diet. Maintaining a healthy weight will help improve
your overall health. Eating plenty of fiber can help keep you regular so you
don't have to strain during bowel movements.

Techniques that also offer ways to relax and may help relieve pain include:

      * Muscle relaxation
      * Deep breathing
      * Visualization
      * Biofeedback
      * Yoga 

Some women find that acupuncture helps ease painful periods. Some studies show
it also helps with long-term (chronic) pain.

If self-care for pain does not help, talk with your provider about other
treatment options.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider right away if you have severe pelvic pain.

Call your provider for an appointment if:

      * You have pain during or after sex
      * Your periods become more painful
      * You have blood in your urine or pain when you urinate
      * You have blood in your stool, painful bowel movements, or a change in your bowel movements
      * You are unable to become pregnant after trying for 1 year 

## Alternative Names

Pelvic pain - living with endometriosis; Endometrial implant - living with
endometriosis; Endometrioma - living with endometriosis

## References

Advincula A, Truong M, Lobo RA. Endometriosis: etiology, pathology, diagnosis,
management. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds.
_Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 19.

Brown J, Farquhar C. An overview of treatments for endometriosis. _JAMA_.
2015;313(3):296-297. PMID: 25603001 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25603001.

Burney RO, Giudice LC. Endometriosis. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Krester
DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 130.

Smith CA, Armour M, Zhu X, Li X, Lu ZY, Song J. Acupuncture for dysmenorrhoea.
_Cochrane Database Syst Rev_. 2016;4:CD007854. PMID: 27087494
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27087494.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Endometriosis

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

