Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003003.htm    
                                Description: A heart transplant is surgery to remove a damaged or diseased heart and replace it with a healthy donor heart.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heart transplant

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003003.htm

# Heart transplant

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A heart transplant is surgery to remove a damaged or diseased heart and
replace it with a healthy donor heart.

## Description

Finding a donor heart can be difficult. The heart must be donated by someone
who is brain-dead but is still on life support. The donor heart must be in
normal condition without disease and must be matched as closely as possible to
your blood and /or tissue type to reduce the chance that your body will reject
it.

You are put into a deep sleep with general anesthesia, and a cut is made
through the breastbone.

      * Your blood flows through a heart-lung bypass machine while the surgeon works on your heart. This machine does the work of your heart and lungs while they are stopped, and supplies your body with blood and oxygen.
      * Your diseased heart is removed and the donor heart is stitched in place. The heart-lung machine is then disconnected. Blood flows through the transplanted heart, which takes over supplying your body with blood and oxygen.
      * Tubes are inserted to drain air, fluid, and blood out of the chest for several days, and to allow the lungs to fully re-expand.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

A heart transplant may be done to treat:

      * Severe heart damage after a heart attack 
      * Severe heart failure, when medicines, other treatments, and surgery no longer help
      * Severe heart defects that were present at birth and can't be fixed with surgery
      * Life-threatening abnormal heartbeats or rhythms that do not respond to other treatments 

Heart transplant surgery may not be used in people who:

      * Are malnourished
      * Are older than age 65 to 70
      * Have had a severe stroke or dementia
      * Have had cancer less than 2 years ago
      * Have HIV infection
      * Have infections, such as hepatitis, that are active
      * Have insulin-dependent diabetes and other organs,Â such asÂ the kidneys, that aren't working correctly 
      * Have kidney, lung, nerve, or liver disease
      * Have no family support and do not follow their treatment
      * Have other diseases that affect the blood vessels of the neck and leg
      * Have pulmonary hypertension (thickening of blood vessels in the lung)
      * Smoke or abuse alcohol or drugs, or have other lifestyle habits that may damage the new heart 
      * Are not reliable enough to take their medicines, or if the person is not able to keep up with the many hospital and medical office visits and tests

## Risks

Risks from any anesthesia are:

      * Reactions to medicines
      * Problems breathing 

Risks from any surgery are:

      * Bleeding
      * Infection 

Risks of transplant include:

      * Blood clots (deep venous thrombosis)
      * Damage to the kidneys, liver, or other organs from anti-rejection medicines
      * Development of cancer from the drugs used to prevent rejection
      * Heart attack or stroke
      * Heart rhythm problems
      * High cholesterol levels, diabetes, and bone thinning from the use of rejection medicines
      * Increased risk for infections due to anti-rejection medicines
      * Lung and kidney failure
      * Rejection of the heart
      * Severe coronary artery disease
      * Wound infections 
      * The new heart may not work at all

## Before the Procedure

OnceÂ you are referred to a transplant center, you will be evaluated by the
transplant team. They will want to make sure that you are a good candidate for
a transplant. You will visit many times over several weeks or even months. You
will need to have blood drawn and x-rays taken. The following may also be
done:

      * Blood or skin tests to check for infections
      * Tests of your kidney and liver
      * Tests to evaluate your heart, such as ECG, echocardiogram, and cardiac catheterization
      * Tests to look for cancer
      * Tissue and blood typing, to help make sure your body will not reject the donated heart
      * Ultrasound of your neck and legs 

You will want to look at one or more transplant centers to see which would be
best for you:

      * Ask them how many transplants they perform every year and what their survival rates are. Compare these numbers with the numbers from other centers. These are all available on the internet at unos.org.
      * Ask what support groups they have available and how much help they offer with travel and housing.
      * Ask about the costs of medicines you will need to take afterwards and if there is any financial help in getting the medicines. 

If the transplant team believes you are a good candidate, you will be put on a
regional waiting list for a heart:

      * Your place on the list is based on several factors. Key factors include the type and severity of your heart disease, and how sick you are at the time you are listed.
      * The amount of time you spend on a waiting list is usually NOT a factor for how soon you get a heart, except in the case of children. 

Most, but not all, people who are waiting for a heart transplant are very ill
and need to be in the hospital. Many will need some sort of device to help
their heart pump enough blood to the body. Most often, this is a ventricular
assist device (VAD).

## After the Procedure

You should expect to stay in the hospital for 7 to 21 days after a heart
transplant. The first 24 to 48 hours will likely be in the intensive care unit
(ICU). During the first few days after a transplant, you will need close
follow-up to make sure that you do not get an infection and your heart is
working well.

The recovery period is about 3 months and often, your transplant team will ask
you to stay fairly close to the hospital during that time period. You will
need to have regular check-ups with blood tests, x-rays, and echocardiograms
for many years.

Fighting rejection is an ongoing process. The body's immune system considers
the transplanted organ a foreign body and fights it. For this reason, organ
transplant patients must take drugs that suppress the body's immune response.
To prevent rejection, it is very important to take these medicines and
carefully follow your self-care instructions.

Biopsies of the heart muscle are often done every month during the first 6 to
12 months after transplant, and then less often after that. This helps
determine if your body is rejecting the new heart, even before you have
symptoms.

You must take drugs that prevent transplant rejection for the rest of your
life. You will need to understand how to take these medicines, and know their
side effects.

You can go back to your normal activities 3 months after the transplant as
soon as you feel well enough, and after talking with your health care
provider. Consult your provider if you plan to engage in vigorous physical
activity.

If you develop coronary disease after a transplant, you may have cardiac
catheterization every year.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Heart transplant prolongs the life ofÂ people who would otherwise die. About
80% of heart transplant patients are alive 2 years after the operation. At 5
years, 70% ofÂ patients will still be alive after a heart transplant.

The main problem, as with other transplants, is rejection. If rejection can be
controlled, survival increases to over 10 years.

## Alternative Names

Cardiac transplant; Transplant - heart; Transplantation - heart

## Images

      * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
      * ![Heart - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view
      * ![Normal anatomy of the heart](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8804t.jpg)Normal anatomy of the heart
      * ![Heart transplant - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10242t.jpg)Heart transplant - series

## References

Chiu P, Robbins RC, Ha R. Heart transplantation. In: Sellke FW, del Nido PJ,
Swanson SJ, eds. _Sabiston and Spencer Surgery of the Chest_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 98.

Jessup M, Atluri P, Acker MA. Surgical management of heart failure. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann, DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 28.

Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM. Pediatric
heart and heart-lung transplantation. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ,
Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 470.

Mancini D, Naka Y. Cardiac transplantation. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 82.

Yancy CW, Jessup M, Bozkurt B, et al. 2017 ACC/AHA/HFSA Focused Update of the
2013 ACCF/AHA guideline for the management of heart failure: a report of the
American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on
Clinical Practice Guidelines and the Heart Failure Society of America. _J Card
Fail_. 2017;23(8):628-651. PMID: 28461259
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28461259.

## Review Date 4/3/2019

Updated by: Mary C. Mancini, MD, PhD, Director, Cardiothoracic Surgery,
Christus Highland Medical Center, Shreveport, LA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart
Transplantation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartTransplantation_thumb.jpg)Heart
Transplantation _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

