Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000528.htm    
                                Description: Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency is a condition in which red blood cells break down when the body is exposed to certain drugs or the stress of infection. It is hereditary, which means    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000528.htm

# Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency is a condition in which
red blood cells break down when the body is exposed to certain drugs or the
stress of infection. It is hereditary, which means it is passed down in
families.

## Causes

G6PD deficiency occurs when a person is missing or does not have enough of an
enzyme called glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase. This enzyme helps red blood
cells work properly.

Too little G6PD leads to the destruction of red blood cells. This process is
called hemolysis. When this process is actively occurring, it is called a
hemolytic episode. The episodes are most often brief. This is because the body
continues to produce new red blood cells, which have normal activity.

Red blood cell destruction can be triggered by infections, certain foods (such
as fava beans), and certain medicines, including:

      * Antimalarial medicines such as quinine
      * Aspirin (high doses)
      * Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)
      * Quinidine
      * Sulfa drugs 
      * Antibiotics such as quinolones, nitrofurantoin  

Other chemicals, such as those in mothballs, can also trigger an episode.

In the United States, G6PD deficiency is more common among blacks than whites.
Men are more likely to have this disorder than women.

You are more likely to develop this condition if you:

      * Are African American
      * Are of Middle Eastern decent, particularly Kurdish or Sephardic Jewish
      * Are male
      * Have a family history of the deficiency 

A form of this disorder is common in whites of Mediterranean descent. This
form is also associated with acute episodes of hemolysis. Episodes are longer
and more severe than in the other types of the disorder.

## Symptoms

People with this condition do not display any signs of the disease until their
red blood cells are exposed to certain chemicals in food or medicine.

Symptoms are more common in men and may include:

      * Dark urine
      * Fever
      * Pain in abdomen
      * Enlarged spleenÂ and liver
      * Fatigue
      * Pallor
      * Rapid heart rate
      * Shortness of breath
      * Yellow skin color (jaundice) 

## Exams and Tests

A blood test can be done to check the level of G6PD.

Other tests that may be done include:

      * Bilirubin level
      * Complete blood count
      * Hemoglobin - urine
      * Haptoglobin level
      * LDH test
      * Methemoglobin reduction test
      * Reticulocyte count

## Treatment

Treatment may involve:

      * Medicines to treat an infection, if present
      * Stopping any drugs that are causing red blood cell destruction
      * Transfusions, in some cases 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In most cases, hemolytic episodes go away on their own.

## Possible Complications

In rare case, kidney failure or death may occur following a severe hemolytic
event.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have symptoms of this condition.

Call your provider if you have been diagnosed with G6PD deficiency and
symptoms do not disappear after treatment.

## Prevention

People with G6PD deficiency must strictly avoid things that can trigger an
episode. Talk to your provider about your medicines.

Genetic counseling or testing may be available to those who have a family
history of the condition.

## Alternative Names

G6PD deficiency; Hemolytic anemia due to G6PD deficiency; Anemia - hemolytic
due to G6PD deficiency

## Images

      * ![Blood cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9123t.jpg)Blood cells

## References

Gallagher PG. Hemolytic anemias. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 161.

Gregg XT, Prchal JT. Red blood cell enzymopathies. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ,
Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 44.

Lissauer T. Haematological disorders. In: Lissauer T, ed. _Illustrated
Textbook of Paediatrics_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 23.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![G6PD
Deficiency](https://medlineplus.gov/images/G6PDDeficiency_thumb.jpg)G6PD
Deficiency _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

