Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003671.htm    
                                Description: Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) is a protein that helps red blood cells work properly. The G6PD test looks at the amount (activity) of this substance in red blood cells.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003671.htm

# Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) is a protein that helps red blood
cells work properly. The G6PD test looks at the amount (activity) of this
substance in red blood cells.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is usually necessary.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your health care provider may recommend this test if you have signs of G6PD
deficiency. This means you do not have enough G6PD activity.

Too little G6PD activity leads to the destruction of red blood cells. This
process is called hemolysis. When this process is actively occurring, it is
called a hemolytic episode.

Hemolytic episodes can be triggered by infections, certain foods (such as fava
beans), and certain medicines, including:

      * Drugs used to reduce fever
      * Nitrofurantoin
      * Phenacetin
      * Primaquine
      * Sulfonamides
      * Thiazide diuretics
      * Tolbutamide
      * Quinidine

## Normal Results

Normal values vary and depend upon the laboratory used.Â Some labs use
different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider about
the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results mean you have a G6PD deficiency. This can cause hemolytic
anemia in certain conditions.

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be more difficult than
from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

      * Excessive bleeding
      * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
      * Multiple punctures to locate veins
      * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
      * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

RBC G6PD test; G6PD screen

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD, G-6-PD),
screen - blood. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and
Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:594-595.

Gallagher PG. Hemolytic anemias: red blood cell membrane and metabolic
defects. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 161.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longsteet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![G6PD
Deficiency](https://medlineplus.gov/images/G6PDDeficiency_thumb.jpg)G6PD
Deficiency _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

