Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001657.htm    
                                Description: Progeria is a rare genetic condition that produces rapid aging in children.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Progeria

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001657.htm

# Progeria

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Progeria is a rare genetic condition that produces rapid aging in children.

## Causes

Progeria is a rare condition. It is remarkable because its symptoms strongly
resemble normal human aging, but it occurs in young children. In most cases,
it is not passed down through families. It is rarely seen in more than one
child in a family.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Growth failure during the first year of life
      * Narrow, shrunken or wrinkled face
      * Baldness
      * Loss of eyebrows and eyelashes
      * Short stature
      * Large head for size of face (macrocephaly)
      * Open soft spot (fontanelle)
      * Small jaw (micrognathia)
      * Dry, scaly, thin skin
      * Limited range of motion
      * Teeth - delayed or absent formation

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and order laboratory
tests. This may show:

      * Insulin resistance
      * Skin changes similar to that seen in scleroderma (the connective tissue becomes tough and hardened)
      * Generally normal cholesterol and triglyceride levels 

Cardiac stress testing may reveal signs of early atherosclerosis of blood
vessels.

Genetic testing can detect changes in the gene ( _LMNA_ ) that causes
progeria.

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for progeria. Aspirin and statin medicines may
be used to protect against a heart attack or stroke.

## Support Groups

Progeria Research Foundation, Inc. -- www.progeriaresearch.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Progeria causes early death. People with the condition most often only live to
their teenage years (average lifespan of 14 years). However, some can live
into their early 20s. The cause of death is very often related to the heart or
a stroke.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Heart attack (myocardial infarction)
      * Stroke

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child does not appear to be growing or developing
normally.

## Alternative Names

Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome; HGPS

## Images

      * ![Coronary artery blockage](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9377t.jpg)Coronary artery blockage

## References

Gordon LB. Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (progeria). In: Kliegman RM,
St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 109.

Gordon LB, Brown WT, Collins FS. Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome.
_GeneReviews_. 2015:1. PMID: 20301300 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20301300.
Updated January 17, 2019. Accessed July 31, 2019.

## Review Date 7/29/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Genetic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GeneticDisorders_thumb.jpg)Genetic
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

