Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001665.htm    
                                Description: AlstrÃ¶m syndrome is a very rare disease. It is passed down through families (inherited). This disease can lead to blindness, deafness, diabetes, and obesity.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

AlstrÃ¶m syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001665.htm

# AlstrÃ¶m syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

AlstrÃ¶m syndrome is a very rare disease. It is passed down through families
(inherited). This disease can lead to blindness, deafness, diabetes, and
obesity.

## Causes

AlstrÃ¶m syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means
both your parents must pass on a copy of the defective gene (ALMS1) in order
for you to have this disease.

It is unknown how the defective gene causes the disorder.

The condition is very rare.

## Symptoms

Common symptoms of this condition are:

      * Blindness or severe vision impairment in infancy
      * Dark patches of skin (acanthosis nigricans)
      * Deafness
      * Impaired heart function (cardiomyopathy), which may lead to heart failure
      * Obesity
      * Progressive kidney failure
      * Slowed growth
      * Symptoms of childhood-onset or type 2 diabetes 

Occasionally, the following can also occur:

      * Gastrointestinal reflux
      * Hypothyroidism
      * Liver dysfunction
      * Small penis 

## Exams and Tests

An eye doctor (ophthalmologist) will examine the eyes. The person may have
reduced vision.

Tests may be done to check:

      * Blood sugar levels (to diagnose hyperglycemia)
      * Hearing
      * Heart function
      * Thyroid function
      * Triglyceride levels 

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for this syndrome. Treatment for symptoms may
include:

      * Diabetes medicine
      * Hearing aids
      * Heart medicine
      * Thyroid hormone replacement 

## Support Groups

AlstrÃ¶m Syndrome International -- www.alstrom.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The following are likely to develop:

      * Deafness
      * Permanent blindness
      * Type 2 diabetes 

Kidney and liver failure may get worse.

## Possible Complications

Possible complications are:

      * Complications from diabetes
      * Coronary artery disease (from diabetes and high cholesterol)
      * Fatigue and shortness of breath (if poor heart function is not treated) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you or your child has symptoms of diabetes.
Common symptoms of diabetes are increased thirst and urination. Seek medical
attention right away if you think that your child cannot see or hear normally.

## References

Farooqi IS, O'Rahilly S. Genetic syndromes associated with obesity. In:
Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and
Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 28.

Freund KB, Sarraf D, Mieler WF, Yannuzzzi LA. Hereditary chorioretinal
dystrophies. In: Freund KB, Sarraf D, Mieler WF, Yannuzzi LA, eds. _The
Retinal Atlas_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 2.

Torres VE, Harris PC. Cystic diseases of the kidney. In: Skorecki K, Chertow
GM, Marsden PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_. 10th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 46.

## Review Date 8/5/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Genetic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GeneticDisorders_thumb.jpg)Genetic
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

