Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001317.htm    
                                Description: Mosaicism is a condition in which cells within the same person have a different genetic makeup. This condition can affect any type of cell, including:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mosaicism

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001317.htm

# Mosaicism

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Mosaicism is a condition in which cells within the same person have a
different genetic makeup. This condition can affect any type of cell,
including:

      * Blood cells
      * Egg and sperm cells 
      * Skin cells

## Causes

Mosaicism is caused by an error in cell division very early in the development
of the unborn baby. Examples of mosaicism include:

      * Mosaic Down syndrome
      * Mosaic Klinefelter syndrome
      * Mosaic Turner syndrome

## Symptoms

Symptoms vary and are very difficult to predict. Symptoms may not be as severe
if you have both normal and abnormal cells.

## Exams and Tests

Genetic testing can diagnose mosaicism.

Tests will likely need to be repeated to confirm the results, and to help
determine the type and severity of the disorder.

## Treatment

Treatment will depend on the type and severity of the disorder.Â YouÂ may need
less intense treatment if only some of the cells are abnormal.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you do depends on which organs and tissues are affected (for example,
the brain or heart). It is difficult to predict the effects of having two
different cell lines in one person.

In general, people with a high number of abnormal cells have the same outlook
as people with the typical form of the disease (those who have all abnormal
cells). The typical form is also called non-mosaic.

People with a low number of abnormal cells may be only mildly affected. They
may not discover that they have mosaicism until they give birth to a child who
has the non-mosaic form of the disease. Sometimes a child born with the non-
mosaic form will not survive, but a child born with mosaicism will.

## Possible Complications

Complications depend on how many cells are affected by the genetic change.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

A diagnosis of mosaicism may cause confusion and uncertainty. A genetic
counselor may help answer any questions about diagnosis and testing.

## Prevention

There is currently no known way to prevent mosaicism.

## Alternative Names

Chromosomal mosaicism; Gonadal mosaicism

## References

Driscoll DA, Simpson JL, Holzgreve W, OtaÃ±o L. Genetic screening and prenatal
genetic diagnosis. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds.
_Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 10.

Nussbaum RL, McInnes RR, Willard HF. Prenatal diagnosis and screening. In:
Nussbaum RL, McInnes RR, Willard HF, eds. _Thompson and Thompson Genetics in
Medicine_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 17.

## Review Date 10/15/2018

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Genetic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GeneticDisorders_thumb.jpg)Genetic
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

