Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001473.htm    
                                Description: Noonan syndrome with multiple lentigines (NSML) is a very rare inherited disorder. People with this condition have problems with the skin, head and face, inner ear, and heart. The genitals may also be    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Noonan syndrome with multiple lentigines

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001473.htm

# Noonan syndrome with multiple lentigines

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Noonan syndrome with multiple lentigines (NSML) is a very rare inherited
disorder. People with this condition have problems with the skin, head and
face, inner ear, and heart. The genitals may also be affected.

Noonan syndrome was formerly known as LEOPARD syndrome.

## Causes

NSLM is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait. This means the person only
needs the abnormal gene from one parent in order to inherit the disease.

## Symptoms

The former name of NSML of LEOPARD stands for the different problems (signs
and symptoms) of this disorder:

      *  **L** entigines â large number of brown or black freckle-like skin markings that mainly affect the neck and upper chest but can appear all over the body
      * Electrocardiograph conduction abnormalities â problems with the electrical and pumping functions of the heart
      *  **O** cular hypertelorism â eyes that are spaced wide apart
      * Pulmonary valve stenosisâ narrowing of the pulmonary heart valve, resulting in less blood flow to the lungs and causing shortness of breath
      *  **A** bnormalities of the genitals â such as undescended testicles
      *  **R** etardation of growth (delayed growth) â including bone growth problems of the chest and spine
      *  **D** eafness â hearing loss may vary between mild and severe

NSML is similar to Noonan syndrome. However, the main symptom that tells apart
the two conditions is that people with NSML have lentigines.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and listen to the heart
with a stethoscope.Â

Tests that may be done include:

      * ECG and echocardiogram to check the heart 
      * Hearing test
      * CT scan of the brain
      * Skull x-ray
      * EEG to check the brain's function
      * Blood tests to check certain hormone levels
      * Removing a small amount of skin for examination (skin biopsy)

## Treatment

Symptoms are treated as appropriate. A hearing aid may be needed. Hormone
treatment may be necessary at the expected time of puberty to cause the normal
changes to occur.

Laser, cryosurgery (freezing), or bleaching creams may help lighten some of
the brown spots on the skin.

## Support Groups

These resources can provide more information on LEOPARD syndrome:

      * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/leopard-syndrome
      * NIH Genetics Home Reference -- ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/noonan-syndrome-with-multiple-lentigines

## Possible Complications

Complications vary and include:

      * Deafness
      * Delayed puberty
      * Heart problems
      * Infertility

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if there are symptoms of this disorder.

Call for an appointment with your provider if you have a family history of
this disorder and plan to have children.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling is recommended for people with a family history of NSLM who
want to have children.

## Alternative Names

Multiple lentigines syndrome; LEOPARD syndrome; NSML

## References

James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Melanocytic nevi and
neoplasms. In: James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM, eds.
_Andrews' Diseases of the Skin_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 30.

Paller AS, Mancini AJ. Disorders of pigmentation. In: Paller AS, Mancini AJ,
eds. _Hurwitz Clinical Pediatric Dermatology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 11.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Genetic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GeneticDisorders_thumb.jpg)Genetic
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

