Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007477.htm    
                                Description: WHO SHOULD TAKE CALCIUM SUPPLEMENTS?    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Calcium supplements

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007477.htm

# Calcium supplements

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

WHO SHOULD TAKE CALCIUM SUPPLEMENTS?

Calcium is an important mineral for the human body. It helps build and protect
your teeth and bones. Getting enough calcium over your lifetime can help
prevent osteoporosis.

Most people get enough calcium in their normal diet. Dairy foods, leafy green
vegetables, and calcium fortified foods have high levels of calcium. For
example, 1 cup (237 ml) of milk or yogurt has 300 mg of calcium. Older women
and men may need extra calcium to prevent their bones from getting thin
(osteoporosis).

Your health care provider will tell you if you need to take extra calcium. The
decision to take extra calcium should be based on balancing the benefits and
risks of doing so.

TYPES OF CALCIUM SUPPLEMENTS

Forms of calcium include:

      * Calcium carbonate. Over-the-counter (OTC) antacid products contain calcium carbonate. These sources of calcium do not cost much. Each pill or chew provides 200 mg or more of calcium.
      * Calcium citrate. This is a more expensive form of calcium. It is absorbed well on an empty or full stomach. People with low levels of stomach acid (a condition that is more common in people over age 50) absorb calcium citrate better than calcium carbonate.
      * Other forms, such as calcium gluconate, calcium lactate, calcium phosphate: Most have less calcium than the carbonate and citrate forms and do not offer any advantages.

When choosing a calcium supplement:

      * Look the word "purified" or the United States Pharmacopeia (USP) symbol on the label.
      * Avoid products made from unrefined oyster shell, bone meal, or dolomite that do not have the USP symbol. They may have high levels of lead or other toxic metals.

HOW TO TAKE EXTRA CALCIUM

Follow your provider's advice on how much extra calcium you need.

Increase the dose of your calcium supplement slowly. Your provider may suggest
that you start with 500 mg a day for a week, and then add more over time.

Try to spread the extra calcium you take over the day. DO NOT take more than
500 mg at a time. Taking calcium throughout the day will:

      * Allow more calcium to be absorbed
      * Cut down on side effects such as gas, bloating, and constipation

The total amount of calcium adults need every day from food and calcium
supplements:

      * 19 to 50 years: 1,000 mg/day
      * 51 to 70 years: Men - 1,000 mg/day; Women - 1,200 mg/day
      * 71 years and over: 1,200 mg/day

The body needs vitamin D to help absorb calcium. You can get vitamin D from
sunlight exposure to your skin and from your diet. Ask your provider whether
you need to take a vitamin D supplement. Some forms of calcium supplements
also contain vitamin D.

SIDE EFFECTS AND SAFETY

DO NOT take more than the recommended amount of calcium without your
provider's OK.

Try the following if you have side effects from taking extra calcium:

      * Drink more fluids.
      * Eat high-fiber foods.
      * Switch to another form of calcium if the diet changes do not help. 

Always tell your provider and pharmacist if you are taking extra calcium.
Calcium supplements may change the way your body absorbs some medicines. These
include certain types of antibiotics and iron pills.

Be aware of the following:

      * Taking extra calcium over a long period of time raises the risk of kidney stones in some people.
      * Too much calcium can prevent the body from absorbing iron, zinc, magnesium, and phosphorus.
      * Antacids have other ingredients such as sodium, aluminum, and sugar. Ask your provider if antacids are OK for you to use as a calcium supplement. 

## References

Cosman F, de Beur SJ, LeBoff MS, et al. Clinician's guide to prevention and
treatment of osteoporosis. _Osteoporos Int_. 2014;25(10):2359-2381. PMID:
25182228 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25182228.

NIH Osteoporosis and Related Bone Diseases National Resource Center website.
Calcium and vitamin D: important at every age. www.bones.nih.gov/health-
info/bone/bone-health/nutrition/calcium-and-vitamin-d-important-every-age.
Updated October 2018. Accessed February 26, 2019.

US Preventive Services Task Force, Grossman DC, Curry SJ, et al. Vitamin D,
Calcium, or combined supplementation for the primary prevention of fractures
in community-dwelling adults: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation
statement. _JAMA_. 2018;319(15):1592-1599. PMID: 29677309
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29677309.

Weber TJ. Osteoporosis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 243.

## Review Date 2/6/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Calcium](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Calcium2_thumb.jpg)Calcium _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

