Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002412.htm    
                                Description: Calcium is the most plentiful mineral found in the human body. The teeth and bones contain the most calcium. Nerve cells, body tissues, blood, and other body fluids contain the rest of the calcium.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Calcium in diet

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002412.htm

# Calcium in diet

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Calcium is the most plentiful mineral found in the human body. The teeth and
bones contain the most calcium. Nerve cells, body tissues, blood, and other
body fluids contain the rest of the calcium.

## Function

Calcium is one of the most important minerals for the human body. It helps
form and maintain healthy teeth and bones. A proper level of calcium in the
body over a lifetime can help prevent osteoporosis.

Calcium helps your body with:

      * Building strong bones and teeth
      * Clotting blood
      * Sending and receiving nerve signals
      * Squeezing and relaxing muscles
      * Releasing hormones and other chemicals
      * Keeping a normal heartbeat 

## Food Sources

CALCIUM AND DAIRY PRODUCTS

Many foods contain calcium, but dairy products are the best source. Milk and
dairy products such as yogurt, cheeses, and buttermilk contain a form of
calcium that your body can easily absorb.

Whole milk (4% fat) is recommended for children ages 1 to 2. Most adults and
children over age 2 should drink low-fat (2% or 1%) milk or skim milk and
other dairy products. Removing the fat will not lower the amount of calcium in
a dairy product.

      * Yogurt, most cheeses, and buttermilk are excellent sources of calcium and come in low-fat or fat-free versions.
      * Milk is also a good source of phosphorus and magnesium, which help the body absorb and use calcium.
      * Vitamin D is needed to helpÂ your body use calcium. Milk is fortified with vitamin D for this reason. 

OTHER SOURCES OF CALCIUM

Other sources of calcium that can help meet your body's calcium needs include:

      * Green leafy vegetables such as broccoli, collards, kale, mustard greens, turnip greens, and bok choy or Chinese cabbage
      * Salmon and sardines canned with their soft bones
      * Almonds, Brazil nuts, sunflower seeds, tahini, and dried beans
      * Blackstrap molasses 

Calcium is often added to food products. These include foods such asÂ orange
juice, soy milk, tofu, ready-to-eat cereals, and breads. These are a very good
source of calcium for people who do not eat a lot of dairy products.

Ways to make sure you get enough calcium in your diet:

      * Cook foods in a small amount of water for the shortest possible time to keep more calcium in the foods you eat. (This means steaming or sautÃ©ing to cook instead ofÂ boiling foods.)
      * Be careful aboutÂ the other foods you eat with calcium-rich foods. Certain fibers, such as wheat bran, and foods with oxalic acid (spinach and rhubarb) can bind with calcium and prevent it from being absorbed. This is why leafy greens are not considered an adequateÂ source of calcium by themselves, because your body is unable to utilize much of the calcium they contain. People on a vegan diet need to be sure to also include soy products and fortified products in order to get enough calcium.

DIETARY SUPPLEMENTS

Calcium is also found in many multivitamin-mineral supplements. The amount
varies, depending on the supplement. Dietary supplements may contain only
calcium, or calcium with other nutrients such as vitamin D. Check the label on
the Supplement Facts panel of the package to determine the amount of calcium
in the supplement. Calcium absorption is best when taken in amounts of no more
than 500 mg at a time.

Two commonly available forms of calcium dietary supplements include calcium
citrate and calcium carbonate.

      * Calcium citrate is the more expensive form of the supplement. It is taken up well by the body on a full or empty stomach.
      * Calcium carbonate is less expensive. It is absorbed better by the body if taken with food. Calcium carbonate is found in over-the-counter antacid products such as Rolaids or Tums. Each chew or pill usually provides 200 to 400 mg of calcium. Check the label for the exact amount. 

Other types of calcium in supplements and foods include calcium lactate,
calcium gluconate, and calcium phosphate.

## Side Effects

Increased calcium for a limited period of time does not normally cause side
effects. However, receiving higher amounts of calcium over a long period of
time raises the risk for kidney stones in some people.

Those who do not receive enough calcium over a long period of time can develop
osteoporosis (thinning of bone tissue and loss of bone density over time).
Other disorders are also possible.

People with lactose intolerance have trouble digesting lactose, the sugar in
milk. Over-the-counter products are available that make it easier to digest
lactose. You can also buy lactose-free milk at most grocery stores. Most
people who do not suffer from severe lactose-intolerance are still able to
digest hard cheeses and yogurt.

Tell your health care provider about any dietary supplements and medicines you
take. Your provider can tell you if those dietary supplements might interact
or interfere with your prescription or over-the-counter medicines. In
addition, some medicines might interfere with how your body absorbs calcium.

## Recommendations

The preferred source of calcium is calcium-rich foods such as dairy products.
Some people will need to take a calcium supplement. How much calcium you need
depends on your age and gender. Other factors, such as pregnancy and
illnesses, are also important.

Recommendations for calcium, as well as other nutrients, are provided in the
Dietary Reference Intakes (DRIs) developed by the Food and Nutrition Board at
the Institute of Medicine. DRI is a term for a set of reference intakes that
are used to plan and assess the nutrient intakes of healthy people. These
values, which vary by age and gender, include:

      *  **Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA):** The average daily level of intake that is enough to meet the nutrient needs of nearly all (97% to 98%) healthy people. An RDA is an intake level based on scientific research evidence.
      *  **Adequate Intake (AI):** This level is established when there is not enough scientific research evidence to develop an RDA. It is set at a level that is thought to ensure enough nutrition.

The preferred source of calcium is calcium-rich foods such as dairy products.
Some people will need to take a calcium supplement if they do not get enough
calcium from the foods they eat.

Infants (AI):

      * 0 to 6 months: 200 milligrams per day (mg/day)
      * 7 to 12 months: 260 mg/day

Children and adolescents (RDA):

      * Age 1 to 3: 700 mg/day
      * Age 4 to 8: 1,000 mg/day
      * Age 9 to 18: 1,300 mg/day

Adults (RDA):

      * Age 19 to 50: 1,000 mg/day
      * Age 50 to 70: Men - 1,000 mg/day; Women - 1,200 mg/day
      * Over age 71: 1,200 mg/day

Pregnancy and breastfeeding (RDA):

      * Age 14 to 18: 1,300 mg/day
      * Age 19 to 50: 1,000 mg/day

Up to 2,500 to 3,000 mg a day of calcium from dietary sources and supplements
appears to be safe for children and adolescents, and 2,000 to 2,500 mg a day
appears to be safe for adults.

The following list can help you determine roughly how much calcium you are
getting from food:

      * 8-ounce (240 milliliter) glass of milk = 300 mg of calcium
      * 8 ounce (240 milliliter) glass of calcium-fortified soy milk = 300 mg calcium
      * 1.5 ounces (42 grams) of cheese = 300 mg of calcium
      * 6 ounces (168 grams) of yogurt = 300 mg of calcium
      * 3 ounces (84 grams) of sardines with bones = 300 mg of calcium
      * Â½ cup (82 grams) of cooked turnip greens = 100 mg of calcium
      * Â¼ cup (23 grams) of almonds = 100 mg of calcium
      * 1 cup (70 grams) of shredded bok choy = 74 mg of calcium

Vitamin D is needed to help the body absorb calcium. When choosing a calcium
supplement, look for one that also contains vitamin D.

## Alternative Names

Diet - calcium

## Images

      * ![Calcium benefit](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18121t.jpg)Calcium benefit
      * ![Calcium source](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18122t.jpg)Calcium source

## References

Institute of Medicine, Food and Nutrition Board. _Dietary Reference Intakes
for Calcium and Vitamin D._ National Academies Press. Washington, DC. 2011.
PMID: 21796828 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21796828.

Mason JB. Vitamins, trace minerals, and other micronutrients. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 218.

National Institutes of Health. Dietary supplement fact sheet: calcium.
ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/Calcium-HealthProfessional/. Updated September 26,
2018. Accessed April 10, 2019.

National Osteoporosis Foundation. Clinician's guide to prevention and
treatment of osteoporosis. 2014. Issue, Version 1.
www.iscd.org/documents/2014/10/nof-clin-guidelines.pdf. Updated April 1, 2014.
Accessed April 10, 2019.

Salwen MJ. Vitamins and trace elements. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 26.

US Department of Agriculture. FoodData Central. fdc.nal.usda.gov/index.html.
Accessed April 10, 2019.

## Review Date 2/2/2019

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CNSC, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Calcium](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Calcium2_thumb.jpg)Calcium _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

