Link: https://medlineplus.gov/headlice.html    
                                Description: Could that itchy, tickly feeling on your head be head lice? Learn about these tiny insects, such as how to tell if you have them, and how to treat it.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Head Lice

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/headlice.html

#  Head Lice

Also called: Pediculosis

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here
    * Diagnosis and Tests
    * Prevention and Risk Factors
    * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

    * No links available

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Children
    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What are head lice?

Head lice are tiny insects that live on people's heads. Adult lice are about
the size of sesame seeds. The eggs, called nits, are even smaller - about the
size of a dandruff flake. Lice and nits are found on or near the scalp, most
often at the neckline and behind the ears.

Head lice are parasites, and they need to feed on human blood to survive. They
are one of the three types of lice that live on humans. The other two types
are body lice and pubic lice. Each type of lice is different, and getting one
type does not mean that you will get another type.

### How do head lice spread?

Lice move by crawling, because they cannot hop or fly. They spread by close
person-to-person contact. Rarely, they can spread through sharing personal
belongings such as hats or hairbrushes. Personal hygiene and cleanliness have
nothing to do with getting head lice. You also cannot get pubic lice from
animals. Head lice do not spread disease.

### Who is at risk for head lice?

Children ages 3-11 and their families get head lice most often. This is
because young children often have head-to-head contact while playing together.

### What are the symptoms of head lice?

The symptoms of head lice include

    * Tickling feeling in the hair
    * Frequent itching, which is caused by an allergic reaction to the bites
    * Sores from scratching. Sometimes the sores can become infected with bacteria.
    * Trouble sleeping, because head lice are most active in the dark

### How do you know if you have head lice?

A diagnosis of head lice usually comes from seeing a louse or nit. Because
they are very small and move quickly, you may need to use a magnifying lens
and a fine-toothed comb to find lice or nits.

### What are the treatments for head lice?

Treatments for head lice include both over-the-counter and prescription
shampoos, creams, and lotions. If you want to use an over-the-counter
treatment and you aren't sure which one to use or how to use one, ask your
health care provider or pharmacist. You should also check with your health
care provider first if you are pregnant or nursing, or if you want to use a
treatment on a young child.

Follow these steps when using a head lice treatment:

    * Apply the product according to the instructions. Only apply it to the scalp and the hair attached to the scalp. You should not use it on other body hair.
    * Use only one product at a time, unless your health care provider tells you to use two different kinds at once
    * Pay attention to what the instructions say about how long you should leave the medicine on the hair and on how you should rinse it out
    * After rinsing, use a fine-toothed comb or special "nit comb" to remove dead lice and nits
    * After each treatment, check your hair for lice and nits. You should comb your hair to remove nits and lice every 2-3 days. Do this for 2-3 weeks to be sure that all lice and nits are gone.

All household members and other close contacts should be checked and treated
if necessary. If an over-the-counter treatment does not work for you, you can
ask your health care provider for a prescription product.

### Can head lice be prevented?

There are steps you can take to prevent the spread of lice. If you already
have lice, besides treatment, you should

    * Wash your clothes, bedding, and towels with hot water, and dry them using the hot cycle of the dryer
    * Soak your combs and brushes in hot water for 5-10 minutes
    * Vacuum the floor and furniture, particularly where you sat or lay
    * If there are items that you cannot wash, seal them in a plastic bag for two weeks

To prevent your children from spreading lice:

    * Teach children to avoid head-to-head contact during play and other activities
    * Teach children not to share clothing and other items that they put on their head, such as headphones, hair ties, and helmets
    * If your child has lice, be sure to check the policies at school and/or daycare. Your child may not be able to go back until the lice have been completely treated.

There is no clear scientific evidence that lice can be suffocated by home
remedies, such as mayonnaise, olive oil, or similar substances. You also
should not use kerosene or gasoline; they are dangerous and flammable.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Start Here

    * Head Lice (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
    * Head Lice: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Head Lice: Overview (American Academy of Dermatology)

## Diagnosis and Tests

    * Head Lice: Diagnosis (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

    * Head Lice: Prevention and Control (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

    * Head Lice: Malathion Frequently Asked Questions (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Head Lice: Treatment (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Head Lice: Treatment Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
    * Treating and Preventing Head Lice (Food and Drug Administration) Also in Spanish

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Infestations, Bites, and Insect Repellents.
    * Article: Prevalence and Alternative Treatment of Head-Lice Infestation in Rural Thailand: A...
    * Article: Human lice: Spectators and actors of the history of humanity through...
    * Head Lice -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Also in Spanish
    * National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

    * Head Lice (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)
    * Head Lice (Pediculosis Capitis) (Logical Images)
    * Head Lice: Information for Parents (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Lice Aren't So Nice (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

    * Head lice (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Head Lice](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeadLice2.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Head lice

## Related Health Topics

    * Body Lice
    * Parasitic Diseases
    * Pubic Lice

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Head Lice is the National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Head Lice_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 30 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 9 September 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

