Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007184.htm    
                                Description: Complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS) is a long-term (chronic) pain condition that can affect any area of the body, but often affects an arm or a leg.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Complex regional pain syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007184.htm

# Complex regional pain syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS) is a long-term (chronic) pain condition
that can affect any area of the body, but often affects an arm or a leg.

## Causes

Doctors are not sure what causes CRPS. In some cases, the sympathetic nervous
system plays an important role in the pain. Another theory is that CRPS is
caused by a triggering of the immune response, which leads to the inflammatory
symptoms of redness, warmth, and swelling in the affected area.

CRPS has two forms:

      * CRPS 1 is a long-term (chronic) nerve disorder that occurs most often in the arms or legs after a minor injury.
      * CRPS 2 is caused by an injury to a nerve. 

CRPS is thought to result from damage to the nervous system. This includes the
nerves that control the blood vessels and sweat glands.

The damaged nerves are no longer able to properly control blood flow, feeling
(sensation), and temperature to the affected area. This leads to problems in
the:

      * Blood vessels
      * Bones
      * Muscles
      * Nerves
      * Skin 

Possible causes of CRPS:

      * Injury directly to a nerve
      * Injury or infection in an arm or leg 

In rare cases, sudden illnesses such as a heart attack or stroke can cause
CRPS. The condition can sometimes appear without obvious injury to the
affected limb.

This condition is more common in people ages 40 to 60 years, but younger
people can develop it, too.

## Symptoms

The key symptom is pain that:

      * Is intense and burning and is much stronger than would be expected for the type of injury that occurred.
      * Gets worse, rather than better over time.
      * Begins at the point of injury, but may spread to the whole limb, or to the arm or leg on the opposite side of the body. 

In most cases, CRPS has three stages. But, CRPS does not always follow this
pattern. Some people develop severe symptoms right away. Others stay in the
first stage.

Stage 1 (lasts 1 to 3 months):

      * Changes in skin temperature, switching between warm or cold
      * Faster growth of nails and hair
      * Muscle spasms and joint pain
      * Severe burning, aching pain that worsens with the slightest touch or breeze
      * Skin that slowly becomes blotchy, purple, pale, or red; thin and shiny; swollen; more sweaty 

Stage 2 (lasts 3 to 6 months):

      * Continued changes in the skin
      * Nails that are cracked and break more easily
      * Pain that is becoming worse
      * Slower hair growth
      * Stiff joints and weak muscles 

Stage 3 (irreversible changes can be seen)

      * Limited movement in limb because of tightened muscles and tendons (contracture)
      * Muscle wasting
      * Pain in the entire limb 

If pain and other symptoms are severe or long-lasting, many people may
experience depression or anxiety.

## Exams and Tests

Diagnosing CRPS can be difficult, but early diagnosis is very important.

The health care provider will take a medical history and do a physical
examination. Other tests may include:

      * A test to show temperature changes and lack of blood supply in the affected limb (thermography)
      * Bone scans
      * Nerve conduction studies and electromyography (usually done together)
      * X-rays
      * Autonomic nerve testing (measures sweating and blood pressure) 

## Treatment

There is no cure for CRPS, but the disease can be slowed. The main focus is on
relieving the symptoms and helping people with this syndrome live as normal a
life as possible.

Physical and occupational therapy should be started as early as possible.
Starting an exercise program and learning to keep joints and muscles moving
may prevent the disease from getting worse. It can also help you do everyday
activities.

Medicines may be used, including pain medicines, corticosteroids, certain
blood pressure medicines, bone loss drugs and antidepressants.

Some type of talk therapy, such as cognitive behavioral therapy or
psychotherapy, can help teach the skills needed to live with long-term
(chronic) pain.

Surgical or invasive techniques that may be tried:

      * Injected medicine that numbs the affected nerves or pain fibers around the spinal column (nerve block).
      * Internal pain pump that directly delivers medicines to the spinal cord (intrathecal drug pump).
      * Spinal cord stimulator, which involves placing electrodes (electrical leads) next to the spinal cord. A low-level electrical current is used to create a pleasant or tingling sensation in the painful area is the best way to reduce pain in some people.
      * Surgery that cuts the nerves to destroy the pain (surgical sympathectomy), although it is unclear how many people this helps. It may also make some person's symptoms worse.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook is better with an early diagnosis. If the doctor diagnoses the
condition in the first stage, sometimes signs of the disease may disappear
(remission) and normal movement is possible.

If the condition is not diagnosed quickly, changes to the bone and muscle may
get worse and may not be reversible.

In some people, symptoms go away on their own. In other people, even with
treatment the pain continues and the condition causes crippling, irreversible
changes.

## Possible Complications

Complications that may result include:

      * Problems with thinking and judgment 
      * Depression 
      * Loss of muscle size or strength in the affected limb 
      * Spread of the disease to another part of the body 
      * Worsening of the affected limb 

Complications can also occur with some of the nerve and surgical treatments.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if you develop constant, burning pain in an arm, leg,
hand, or foot.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention at this time. Early treatment is the key to
slowing the progression of the disease.

## Alternative Names

CRPS; RSDS; Causalgia - RSD; Shoulder-hand syndrome; Reflex sympathetic
dystrophy syndrome; Sudeck atrophy; Pain - CRPS

## References

Gorodkin R. Complex regional pain syndrome (reflex sympathetic dystrophy). In:
Hochberg MC, Gravallese EM, Silman AJ, Smolen JS, Weinblatt ME, Weisman MH,
eds. _Rheumatology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 90.

Hurley RW, Henriquez OH, Wu CL. Neuropathic pain syndromes. In: Benzon HT,
Rathmell JP, Wu CL, Turk DC, Argoff CE, Hurley RW, eds. _Practical Management
of Pain_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Mosby; 2014:chap 24.

Stanos SP, Tyburski MD, Harden RN. Chronic pain. In: Cifu DX, ed. _Braddom's
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 37.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Joseph V. Campellone, MD, Department of Neurology, Cooper Medical
School at Rowan University, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Complex Regional Pain
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ComplexRegionalPainSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Complex
Regional Pain Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

