Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003300.htm    
                                Description: Decorticate posture is an abnormal posturing in which a person is stiff with bent arms, clenched fists, and legs held out straight. The arms are bent in toward the body and the wrists and fingers are bent    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Decorticate posture

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003300.htm

# Decorticate posture

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Decorticate posture is an abnormal posturing in which a person is stiff with
bent arms, clenched fists, and legs held out straight. The arms are bent in
toward the body and the wrists and fingers are bent and held on the chest.

This type of posturing is a sign of severe damage in the brain. People who
have this condition should get medical attention right away.

## Considerations

Decorticate posture is a sign of damage to the nerve pathway in the midbrain,
which is between the brain and spinal cord. The midbrain controls motor
movement. Although decorticate posture is serious, it is usually not as
serious as a type of abnormal posture called decerebrate posture.

The posturing may occur on one or both sides of the body.

## Causes

Causes of decorticate posture include:

      * Bleeding in the brain from any cause 
      * Brain stem tumor 
      * Stroke
      * Brain problem due to drugs, poisoning, or infection 
      * Traumatic brain injury 
      * Brain problem due to liver failure
      * Increased pressure in the brain from any cause
      * Brain tumor
      * Infection, such as Reye syndrome

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Abnormal posturing of any kind usually occurs with a reduced level of
alertness. Anyone who has an abnormal posture should be examined right away by
a health care provider and treated right away in a hospital.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The person will receive emergency treatment. This includes getting a breathing
tube and breathing assistance. The person will likely be admitted to the
hospital and placed in the intensive care unit.

After the condition is stable, the provider will get a medical history from
family members or friends and a more detailed physical examination will be
done. This will include a careful examination of the brain and nervous system.

Medical history questions may include:

      * When did the symptoms start?
      * Is there a pattern to the episodes?
      * Is the body posture always the same?
      * Is there any history of a head injury or drug use?
      * What other symptoms occurred before or with the abnormal posturing? 

Tests that may be done include:

      * Blood and urine tests to check blood counts, screen for drugs and toxic substances, and measure body chemicals and minerals
      * Cerebral angiography (a dye and x-ray study of blood vessels in the brain)
      * MRI or CT scan of the head
      * EEG (brain wave testing)
      * Intracranial pressure (ICP) monitoring
      * Lumbar puncture to collect cerebrospinal fluid

The outlook depends on the cause. There may be brain and nervous system injury
and permanent brain damage, which can lead to:

      * Coma
      * Inability to communicate
      * Paralysis
      * Seizures 

## Alternative Names

Abnormal posturing - decorticate posture; Traumatic brain injury - decorticate
posture

## References

Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW. Neurologic system. In:
Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW, eds. _Seidel's Guide to
Physical Examination_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 23.

Hamati AI. Neurological complications of systemic disease: children. In:
Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 59.

Papa L, Goldberg SA. Head trauma. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 34.

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, FAAN, Attending Neurologist and
Assistant Professor of Clinical Neurology, Stony Brook University School of
Medicine, Stony Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Neurologic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NeurologicDiseases_thumb.jpg)Neurologic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

