Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003927.htm    
                                Description: Nerve conduction velocity (NCV) is a test to see how fast electrical signals move through a nerve. This test isÂ done along with electromyography (EMG) to assess the muscles for abnormalities.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nerve conduction velocity

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003927.htm

# Nerve conduction velocity

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Nerve conduction velocity (NCV) is a test to see how fast electrical signals
move through a nerve. This test isÂ done along with electromyography (EMG) to
assess the muscles for abnormalities.

## How the Test is Performed

Adhesive patches called surface electrodes are placed on the skin over nerves
at different spots. Each patch gives off a very mild electrical impulse. This
stimulates the nerve.

The resulting electrical activity of the nerve is recorded by the other
electrodes. The distance between electrodes and the time it takes for
electrical impulses to travel between electrodes are used to measure the speed
of the nerve signals.

EMG is the recording from needles placed into the muscles. This is often done
at the same time as this test.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You must stay at a normal body temperature. Being too cold or too warm alters
nerve conduction and can give false results.

Tell your doctor if you have a cardiac defibrillator or pacemaker. Special
steps will need to be taken before the test if you have one of these devices.

Do not wear any lotions, sunscreen, perfume, or moisturizer on your body on
the day of the test.

## How the Test will Feel

The impulse may feel like an electric shock. You may feel some discomfort
depending on how strong the impulse is. You should feel no pain once the test
is finished.

Often, the nerve conduction test is followed by electromyography (EMG). In
this test, a needle is placed into a muscle and you are told to contract that
muscle. This process can be uncomfortable during the test. You may have muscle
soreness or bruising after the test at the site where the needle was inserted.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is used to diagnose nerve damage or destruction. The test may
sometimes be used to evaluate diseases of nerve or muscle, including:

      * Myopathy
      * Lambert-Eaton syndrome
      * Myasthenia gravis
      * Carpal tunnel syndrome
      * Tarsal tunnel syndrome
      * Diabetic neuropathy
      * Bell palsy
      * Guillain-BarrÃ© syndrome
      * Brachial plexopathy

## Normal Results

NCV is related to the diameter of the nerve and the degree of myelination (the
presence of a myelin sheath on the axon) of the nerve. Newborn infants have
values that are approximately half that of adults. Adult values are normally
reached by age 3 or 4.

Note: Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk
to your health care provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Most often, abnormal results are due to nerve damage or destruction,
including:

      * Axonopathy (damage to the long portion of the nerve cell)
      * Conduction block (the impulse is blocked somewhere along the nerve pathway)
      * Demyelination (damage and loss of the fatty insulation surrounding the nerve cell) 

The nerve damage or destruction may be due to many different conditions,
including:

      * Alcoholic neuropathy
      * Diabetic neuropathy
      * Nerve effects of uremia (from kidney failure)
      * Traumatic injury to a nerve
      * Guillain-BarrÃ© syndrome
      * Diphtheria
      * Carpal tunnel syndrome
      * Brachial plexopathy
      * Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (hereditary)
      * Chronic inflammatory polyneuropathy
      * Common peroneal nerve dysfunction
      * Distal median nerve dysfunction
      * Femoral nerve dysfunction
      * Friedreich ataxia
      * General paresis
      * Mononeuritis multiplex (multiple mononeuropathies)
      * Primary amyloidosis
      * Radial nerve dysfunction
      * Sciatic nerve dysfunction
      * Secondary systemic amyloidosis
      * Sensorimotor polyneuropathy
      * Tibial nerve dysfunction
      * Ulnar nerve dysfunction 

Any peripheral neuropathy can cause abnormal results. Damage to the spinal
cord and disk herniation (herniated nucleus pulposus) with nerve root
compression can also cause abnormal results.

## Considerations

An NCV test shows the condition of the best surviving nerve fibers. Therefore,
in some cases the results may be normal, even if there is nerve damage.

## Alternative Names

NCV

## Images

      * ![Nerve conduction test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9743t.jpg)Nerve conduction test

## References

Deluca GC, Griggs RC. Approach to the patient with neurologic disease. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 368.

Nuwer MR, Pouratian N. Monitoring of neural function: electromyography, nerve
conduction, and evoked potentials. In: Winn HR, ed. _Youmans and Winn
Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 247.

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, FAAN, Attending Neurologist and
Assistant Professor of Clinical Neurology, Stony Brook University School of
Medicine, Stony Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Neurologic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NeurologicDiseases_thumb.jpg)Neurologic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

