Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003206.htm    
                                Description: Numbness and tingling are abnormal sensations that can occur anywhere in your body, but they are often felt in your fingers, hands, feet, arms, or legs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Numbness and tingling

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003206.htm

# Numbness and tingling

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Numbness and tingling are abnormal sensations that can occur anywhere in your
body, but they are often felt in your fingers, hands, feet, arms, or legs.

## Causes

There are many possible causes of numbness and tingling, including:

      * Sitting or standing in the same position for a long time
      * Injuring a nerve (a neck injury may cause you to feel numbness anywhere along your arm or hand, while a low back injury can cause numbness or tingling down the back of your leg)
      * Pressure on the nerves of the spine, such as from a herniated disk
      * Pressure on peripheral nerves from enlarged blood vessels, tumors, scar tissue, or infection
      * Shingles or herpes zoster infection
      * Other infections such as HIV/AIDS, leprosy, syphilis, or tuberculosis
      * Lack of blood supply to an area, such as from hardening of the arteries, frostbite, or vessel inflammation
      * Abnormal levels of calcium, potassium, or sodium in your body
      * Deficiency of B vitamins such as B1, B6,Â B12, or folic acid
      * Use of certain medicines
      * Use of certain illicit street drugs
      * Nerve damage due to lead, alcohol, or tobacco, or from chemotherapy drugs
      * Radiation therapy
      * Animal bites
      * Insect, tick, mite, and spider bites
      * Seafood toxins 
      * Congenital conditions that affect the nerves

Numbness and tingling can be caused by other medical conditions, including:

      * Carpal tunnel syndrome (pressure on a nerve at the wrist)
      * Diabetes
      * Migraines
      * Multiple sclerosis
      * Seizures
      * Stroke
      * Transient ischemic attack (TIA), sometimes called a "mini-stroke"
      * Underactive thyroid
      * Raynaud phenomenon (narrowing of the blood vessels, usually in the hands and feet)

## Home Care

Your health care provider should find and treat the cause of your numbness or
tingling. Treating the condition may make the symptoms go away or stop them
from getting worse. For example, if you have carpal tunnel syndrome or low
back pain, your doctor may recommend certain exercises.

If you have diabetes, yourÂ provider will discuss ways to control your blood
sugar level.

Low levels of vitamins will be treated with vitamin supplements.

Medicines that cause numbness or tingling may need to be switched or changed.
DO NOT change or stop taking any of your medicines or take large doses of any
vitamins or supplements until you have talked with your provider.

Because numbness can cause a decrease in feeling, you may be more likely to
accidentally injure a numb hand or foot. Take care to protect the area from
cuts, bumps, bruises, burns, or other injuries.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to a hospital or call your local emergency number (such as 911) if:

      * You have weakness or are unable to move, along with numbness or tingling
      * Numbness or tingling occur just after a head, neck, or back injury
      * You cannot control the movement of an arm or a leg, or you have lost bladder or bowel control
      * You are confused or have lost consciousness, even briefly
      * You have slurred speech, a change in vision, difficulty walking, or weakness 

Call your provider if:

      * Numbness or tingling has no obvious cause (like a hand or foot "falling asleep")
      * You have pain in your neck, forearm, or fingers
      * You are urinating more often
      * Numbness or tingling is in your legs and gets worse when you walk
      * You have a rash
      * You have dizziness, muscle spasm, or other unusual symptoms 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will take a medical history and perform a physical examination,
carefully checking your nervous system.

You will be asked about your symptoms. Questions may include when the problem
began, its location, or if there's anything that improves or worsens the
symptoms.

Your provider may also ask questions to determine your risk for stroke,
thyroid disease, or diabetes, as well as questions about your work habits and
medicines.

Blood tests that may be ordered include:

      * Complete blood count (CBC)
      * Electrolyte level (measurement of body chemicals and minerals) and liver function tests
      * Thyroid function tests
      * Measurement of vitamin levelsÂ â particularly vitamin B12
      * Heavy metal or toxicology screening
      * Sedimentation rate
      * C-reactive protein

Imaging tests may include:

      * Angiogram (a test that uses x-rays and a special dye to see inside the blood vessels)
      * CT angiogram
      * CT scan of the head
      * CT scan of the spine
      * MRI of the head
      * MRI of the spine
      * Ultrasound of neck vessels to determine your risk for TIA or stroke
      * Vascular ultrasound
      * X-ray of the affected area

Other tests that may be done include:

      * Electromyography and nerve conduction studies to measure how your muscles respond to nerve stimulation
      * Lumbar puncture (spinal tap) to rule out central nervous system disorders
      * Cold stimulation test may be done to check for Raynaud phenomenon

## Alternative Names

Sensory loss; Paresthesias; Tingling and numbness; Loss of sensation; Pins and
needles sensation

## Images

      * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

McGee S. Examination of the sensory system. In: McGee S, ed. _Evidence-Based
Physical Diagnosis_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 62.

Snow DC, Bunney BE. Peripheral nerve disorders. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 97.

Swartz MH. The nervous system. In: Swartz MH, ed. _Textbook of Physical
Diagnosis: History and Examination_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 18.

## Review Date 5/28/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Neurologic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NeurologicDiseases_thumb.jpg)Neurologic
Diseases _Read more_

![Peripheral Nerve
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeripheralNerveDisorders_thumb.jpg)Peripheral
Nerve Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

