Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003299.htm    
                                Description: Decerebrate posture is an abnormal body posture that involves the arms and legs being held straight out, the toes being pointed downward, and the head and neck being arched backward. The muscles are tightened    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Decerebrate posture

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003299.htm

# Decerebrate posture

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Decerebrate posture is an abnormal body posture that involves the arms and
legs being held straight out, the toes being pointed downward, and the head
and neck being arched backward. The muscles are tightened and held rigidly.
This type of posturing usually means there has been severe damage to the
brain.

## Considerations

A severe injury to the brain is the usual cause of decerebrate posture.

Opisthotonos (a severe muscle spasm of the neck and back) may occur in severe
cases of decerebrate posture.

Decerebrate posture can occur on one side, on both sides, or in just the arms.
It may alternate with another type of abnormal posture called decorticate
posture. A person can also have decorticate posture on one side of the body
and decerebrate posture on the other side.

## Causes

Causes of decerebrate posture include:

      * Bleeding in the brain from any cause
      * Brain stem tumor
      * Stroke
      * Brain problem due to illicit drugs, poisoning, or infection
      * Traumatic brain injury
      * Brain problem due to liver failure
      * Increased pressure in the brain from any cause
      * Brain tumor
      * Infections, such as meningitis
      * Reye syndrome (sudden brain damage and liver function problems that affects children)

## Home Care

Conditions related to decerebrate posture need to be treated right away in a
hospital.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Abnormal posturing of any kind usually occurs with a reduced level of
alertness. Anyone who has an abnormal posture should be examined right away by
a health care provider.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The person will need emergency treatment right away. This includes breathing
assistance and placement of a breathing tube. The person will likely be
admitted to the hospital and placed in intensive care.

Once the person is stable, the provider will obtain a complete medical history
from family members or friends and do a more complete physical examination.
This will include a careful examination of the brain and nervous system.

Family members will be asked questions about the person's medical history,
including:

      * When did the symptoms start?
      * Is there a pattern to the episodes?
      * Is the body posturing always the same?
      * Is there any history of a head injury or other condition?
      * What other symptoms came before or with the abnormal posturing? 

Tests may include:

      * Blood and urine tests to check blood counts, screen for drugs and toxic substances, and measure body chemicals and minerals
      * Cerebral angiography (dye and x-ray study of blood vessels in the brain)
      * CT or MRI of the head
      * EEG (brain wave testing)
      * Intracranial pressure (ICP) monitoring
      * Lumbar puncture to collect cerebrospinal fluid

The outlook depends on the cause. There may be brain and nervous system injury
and permanent brain damage, which can lead to:

      * Coma
      * Inability to communicate
      * Paralysis
      * Seizures 

## Alternative Names

Opisthotonos - decerebrate posture; Abnormal posturing - decerebrate posture;
Traumatic brain injury - decerebrate posture; Decorticate posture -
decerebrate posture

## References

Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW. Neurologic system. In:
Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW, eds. _Seidel's Guide to
Physical Examination_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 23.

Hamati AI. Neurological complications of systemic disease: children. In:
Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 59.

Jackimczyk KC. Altered mental status and coma. In: Markovchick VJ, Pons PT,
Bakes KM, Buchanan JA, eds. _Emergency Medicine Secrets_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 13.

Woischneck D, Skalej M, Firsching R, Kapapa T. Decerebrate posturing following
traumatic brain injury: MRI findings and their diagnostic value. _Clin
Radiol_. 2015;70(3):278-285. PMID: 25527191
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25527191.

## Review Date 5/28/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Neurologic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NeurologicDiseases_thumb.jpg)Neurologic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

