Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003195.htm    
                                Description: Opisthotonos is a condition in which a person holds their body in an abnormal position. The person is usually rigid and arches their back, with their head thrown backward. If a person with opisthotonos    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Opisthotonos

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003195.htm

# Opisthotonos

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Opisthotonos is a condition in which a person holds their body in an abnormal
position. The person is usually rigid and arches their back, with their head
thrown backward. If a person with opisthotonos lies on their back, only the
back of their head and heels touch the surface they are on.

## Considerations

Opisthotonos is much more common in infants and children than in adults. It is
also more extreme in infants and children because of their less mature nervous
systems.

## Causes

Opisthotonos may occur in infants with meningitis. This is an infection of the
meninges, the membranes that cover the brain and spinal cord. Opisthotonos may
also occur as a sign of reduced brain function or injury to the nervous
system.

Other causes may include:

      * Arnold-Chiari syndrome, a problem with the structure of the brain
      * Brain tumor
      * Cerebral palsy
      * Gaucher disease, which causes a buildup of fatty tissue in certain organs
      * Growth hormone deficiency (occasionally)
      * Forms of chemical poisoning called glutaric aciduria and organic acidemias 
      * Krabbe disease, which destroys the coating of nerves in the central nervous system
      * Maple syrup urine disease, a disorder in which the body can't break down certain parts of proteins
      * Seizures
      * Severe electrolyte imbalance
      * Traumatic brain injury
      * Stiff-person syndrome (a condition that makes a person rigid and have spasms)
      * Bleeding in the brain
      * Tetanus

Some antipsychotic medicines can cause a side effect called acute dystonic
reaction. Opisthotonos may be part of this reaction.

In rare cases, infants born to women who drink large amounts of alcohol during
pregnancy may have opisthotonus due to alcohol withdrawal.

## Home Care

A person who develops opisthotonos will need to be cared for in a hospital.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room or call your local emergency number (such as 911) if
symptoms of opisthotonos occur. Typically, opisthotonos is a symptom of other
conditions that are serious enough for a person to seek medical attention.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

This condition will be evaluated in a hospital, and emergency measures may be
taken.

The health care provider will perform a physical examination and ask about
symptoms to look for the cause of opisthotonos

Questions may include:

      * When did the symptoms start?
      * Is the body positioning always the same?
      * What other symptoms came before or with the abnormal positioning (such as fever, stiff neck, or headache)?
      * Is there any recent history of illness? 

The physical examination will include a complete checkup of the nervous
system.

Tests may include:

      * Blood and urine tests
      * Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) culture and cell counts
      * CT scan of the head
      * Electrolyte analysis
      * Lumbar puncture (spinal tap)
      * MRI of the brain

Treatment will depend on the cause. For example, if meningitis is the cause,
medicines may be given.

## Alternative Names

Back arching; Abnormal posturing - opisthotonos; Decerebrate posture -
opisthotonos

## References

Berger JR. Stupor and coma. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy
SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 5.

Hamati AI. Neurological complications of systemic disease: children. In:
Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 59.

Hodowanec A, Bleck TP. Tetanus ( _Clostridium tetani_ ). In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 246.

Rezvani I, Ficicioglu CH. Defects in metabolism of amino acids. In: Kliegman
RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 85.

## Review Date 5/28/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Neurologic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NeurologicDiseases_thumb.jpg)Neurologic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

