Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003191.htm    
                                Description: A focal neurologic deficit is a problem with nerve, spinal cord, or brain function. It affects a specific location, such as the left side of the face, right arm, or even a small area such as the tongue.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Focal neurologic deficits

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003191.htm

# Focal neurologic deficits

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A focal neurologic deficit is a problem with nerve, spinal cord, or brain
function. It affects a specific location, such as the left side of the face,
right arm, or even a small area such as the tongue. Speech, vision, and
hearing problems are also considered focal neurological deficits.

The type, location, and severity of the problem can indicate which area of the
brain or nervous system is affected.

In contrast, a nonfocal problem is NOT specific to a certain area of the
brain. It may include a general loss of consciousness or emotional problem.

## Considerations

A focal neurologic problem can affect any of these functions:

      * Movement changes, including paralysis, weakness, loss of muscle control, increased muscle tone, loss of muscle tone, or movements a person cannot control (involuntary movements, such as tremor)
      * Sensation changes, including paresthesia (abnormal sensations), numbness, or decreases in sensation 

Other examples of focal loss of function include:

      * Horner syndrome: small pupil on one side, one-sided eyelid drooping, lack of sweating on one side of the face, and sinking of one eye into its socket
      * Not paying attention to your surroundings or a part of the body (neglect)
      * Loss of coordination or loss of fine motor control (ability to perform complex movements)
      * Poor gag reflex, swallowing difficulty, and frequent choking
      * Speech or language difficulties, such as aphasia (a problem understanding or producing words) or dysarthria (a problem making the sounds of words), poor enunciation, poor understanding of speech, difficulty writing, lack of ability to read or understand writing, inability to name objects (anomia)
      * Vision changes, such as reduced vision, decreased visual field, sudden vision loss, double vision (diplopia) 

## Causes

Anything that damages or disrupts any part of the nervous system can cause a
focal neurologic deficit. Examples include:

      * Abnormal blood vessels (vascular malformation)
      * Brain tumor
      * Cerebral palsy
      * Degenerative nerve illnessÂ (such as multiple sclerosis)
      * Disorders of a single nerve or nerve group (for example, carpal tunnel syndrome)
      * InfectionÂ of the brain (such as meningitis or encephalitis)
      * Injury
      * Stroke

## Home Care

Home care depends on the type and cause of the problem.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you have any loss of movement, sensation, or function, call your health
care provider.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will take your medical history and perform a physical
examination.

The physical examination will include a detailed examination of your nervous
system function.

Which tests are done depends on your other symptoms and the possible cause of
the nerve function loss. Tests are used to try to locate the part of the
nervous system that is involved. Common examples are:

      * CT scan of the back, neck, or head
      * Electromyogram (EMG), nerve conduction velocities (NCV)
      * MRI of the back, neck, or head
      * Spinal tap

## Alternative Names

Neurological deficits - focal

## Images

      * ![Brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1074t.jpg)Brain

## References

Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL. Diagnosis of neurological
disease. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's
Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
1.

Griggs RC, Jozefowicz RF, Aminoff MJ. Approach to the patient with neurologic
disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 396.

## Review Date 10/18/2018

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Neurologic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NeurologicDiseases_thumb.jpg)Neurologic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

