Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000427.htm    
                                Description: Fibromyalgia is a condition in which a person has long-term pain that is spread throughout the body. The pain is most often linked to fatigue, sleep problems, headaches, depression, and anxiety.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fibromyalgia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000427.htm

# Fibromyalgia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fibromyalgia is a condition in which a person has long-term pain that is
spread throughout the body. The pain is most often linked to fatigue, sleep
problems, headaches, depression, and anxiety.

People with fibromyalgia may also have tenderness in the joints, muscles,
tendons, and other soft tissues.

## Causes

The cause is not known. Researchers think that fibromyalgia is due to a
problem with how the central nervous system processes pain. Possible causes or
triggers of fibromyalgia include:

      * Physical or emotional trauma.
      * Abnormal pain response: Areas in the brain that control pain may react differently in people with fibromyalgia.
      * Sleep disturbances.
      * Infection, such as a virus, although none has been identified. 

Fibromyalgia is more common in females as compared to males. Women ages 20 to
50 are most affected.

The following conditions may be seen with fibromyalgia or have similar
symptoms:

      * Long-term (chronic) neck or back pain
      * Long-term (chronic) fatigue syndrome
      * Depression
      * Hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid)
      * Lyme disease
      * Sleep disorders

## Symptoms

Pain is the main symptom of fibromyalgia.

The areas where pain occurs are called tender points. These points are found
in the soft tissue on the back of the head, neck, shoulders, chest, lower
back, hips, elbows, and knees. The pain then spreads out from these areas. The
qualities of the pain are:

      * It may be mild to severe.
      * It may feel like a deep ache, or a stabbing, burning pain.
      * It may feel like it is coming from the joints, although the joints are not affected. 

People with fibromyalgia tend to wake up with body pain and stiffness. For
some people, pain improves during the day and gets worse at night. Some people
have pain all day long.

Pain may get worse with:

      * Physical activity
      * Cold or damp weather
      * Anxiety and stress

Most of the people with fibromyalgia have fatigue, depressed mood, and sleep
problems. Many people say that they cannot get to sleep or stay asleep, and
they feel tired when they wake up.

Other symptoms of fibromyalgia may include:

      * Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS)
      * Memory and concentration problems
      * Numbness and tingling in hands and feet
      * Reduced ability to exercise
      * Tension or migraine headaches

## Exams and Tests

To be diagnosed with fibromyalgia, you must have had at least 3 months of
widespread pain with one or more of the following:

      * Ongoing problems with sleep
      * Fatigue
      * Thinking or memory problems 

It is not necessary to find tender points during the exam to make a diagnosis.

Results from the physical exam, blood and urine tests, and imaging tests are
normal. These tests may be done to rule out other conditions with similar
symptoms. Studies of breathing during sleeping may be done to find out if you
have a condition called sleep apnea.

Fibromyalgia may also occur in people who have other forms of arthritis, such
as:

      * Rheumatoid arthritis
      * Osteoarthritis
      * Spondyloarthritis
      * Systemic lupus erythematosus 

## Treatment

The goals of treatment are to help relieve pain and other symptoms, and to
helpÂ the person cope with the symptoms.

The first type of treatment may involve:

      * Physical therapy
      * Exercise and fitness program
      * Stress-relief methods, including light massage and relaxation techniques 

If these treatments do not work, your health care provider may also prescribe
an antidepressant or muscle relaxant. Sometimes, combinations of medicines are
helpful.

      * The goal of these medicines is to improve your sleep and help you better tolerate pain.
      * Medicine should be used along with exercise and behavior therapy.
      * Duloxetine (Cymbalta), pregabalin (Lyrica), and milnacipran (Savella) are medicines that are approved specifically for treating fibromyalgia. 

Other medicines are also used to treat the condition, such as:

      * Anti-seizure drugs, such as gabapentin
      * Other antidepressants, such as amitriptyline
      * Muscle relaxants, such as cyclobenzaprine
      * Pain relievers, such as tramadol

If you have sleep apnea, a device called continuous positive airway pressure
(CPAP) may be prescribed.

Cognitive-behavioral therapy is an important part of treatment. This therapy
helps you learn how to:

      * Deal with negative thoughts
      * Keep a diary of pain and symptoms
      * Recognize what makes your symptoms worse
      * Seek out enjoyable activities
      * Set limits 

Complementary and alternative treatments may also be helpful. These may
include:

      * Tai chi
      * Yoga
      * Acupuncture

Support groups may also help.

Things you can do to help take care of yourself include:

      * Eat a well-balanced diet.
      * Avoid caffeine.
      * Practice a good sleep routine to improve quality of sleep.
      * Exercise regularly. Start with low-level exercise.

Your provider may refer you to a pain clinic if your condition is severe.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Fibromyalgia is a long-term disorder. Sometimes, the symptoms improve. Other
times, the pain may get worse and continue for months or years.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of fibromyalgia.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention.

## Alternative Names

Fibromyositis; FM; Fibrositis

## Images

      * ![Fibromyalgia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9758t.jpg)Fibromyalgia

## References

Bennett RM. Fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue syndrome, and myofascial pain. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine._ 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 274.

Borg-Stein J, Brassil ME, Borgstrom HE. Fibromyalgia. In: Frontera, WR, Silver
JK, Rizzo TD, eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation._ 4th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 102.

Clauw DJ. Fibromyalgia: a clinical review. _JAMA._ 2014;311(15):1547-1555.
PMID: 24737367 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24737367.

Clauw DJ. Fibromyalgia and related syndromes.In: Hochberg MC, Gravallese EM,
Silman AJ, Smolen JS, Weinblatt ME, Weisman MH, eds. _Rheumatology._ 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 91.

Crofford LJ. Fibromyalgia. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC, Gabriel SE, McInnes IB,
O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelley and Firestein's Textbook of Rheumatology._ 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 52.

Gilron I, Chaparro LE, Tu D, et al. Combination of pregabalin with duloxetine
for fibromyalgia: a randomized controlled trial. _Pain._
2016;157(7):1532-1540. PMID: 26982602 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26982602.

Lauche R, Cramer H, HÃ¤user W, Dobos G, Langhorst J. A systematic overview of
reviews for complementary and alternative therapies in the treatment of the
fibromyalgia syndrome. _Evid-Based Complement Alternat Med._ 2015;
2015:610615. www.hindawi.com/journals/ecam/2015/610615/.

Marvisi M, Balzarini L, Mancini C, Ramponi S, Marvisi C. Fibromyalgia is
frequent in obstructive sleep apnea and responds to CPAP therapy. _Eur J
Intern Med._ 2015;26(9):e49-e50. PMID: 26129987
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26129987.

Wu YL, Chang LY, Lee HC, Fang SC, Tsai PS. Sleep disturbances in fibromyalgia:
a meta-analysis of case-control studies. _J Psychosom Res._ 2017; 96:89-97.
PMID: 28545798 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28545798.

## Review Date 1/29/2018

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, ABIM Board Certified in Rheumatology,
Seattle, WA. Editorial review and update on 03/28/2019 by David Zieve, MD,
MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Fibromyalgia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FibromyalgiaII_thumb.jpg)Fibromyalgia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

