Link: https://medlineplus.gov/chikungunya.html    
                                Description: Mosquitoes carry the Chikungunya virus. Learn about Chikungunya prevention, symptoms, treatment, and more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Chikungunya

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/chikungunya.html

#  Chikungunya

## Summary

Chikungunya is a virus that spread by the same kinds of mosquitoes that spread
dengue and Zika virus. Rarely, it can spread from mother to newborn around the
time of birth. It may also possibly spread through infected blood. There have
been outbreaks of chikungunya virus in Africa, Asia, Europe, the Indian and
Pacific Oceans, the Caribbean, and Central and South America.

Most people who are infected will have symptoms, which can be severe. They
usually start 3-7 days after being bitten by an infected mosquito. The most
common symptoms are fever and joint pain. Other symptoms may include headache,
muscle pain, joint swelling, and rash.

Most people feel better within a week. In some cases, however, the joint pain
may last for months. People at risk for more severe disease include newborns,
older adults, and people with diseases such as high blood pressure, diabetes,
or heart disease.

A blood test can show whether you have chikungunya virus. There are no
vaccines or medicines to treat it. Drinking lots of fluids, resting, and
taking non-aspirin pain relievers might help.

The best way to prevent chikungunya infection is to avoid mosquito bites:

    * Use insect repellent
    * Wear clothes that cover your arms, legs, and feet
    * Stay in places that have air conditioning or that use window and door screens

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

## Learn More

    * Chikungunya (Pan American Health Organization, World Health Organization)
    * Chikungunya Virus (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
    * Chikungunya Virus: What You Need to Know (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish
    * Chikungunya: Information for the General Public (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF
    * Help Control Mosquitoes that Spread Dengue, Chikungunya, and Zika Viruses (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Statistics and Research

    * Chikingunya Virus in the United States (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Chikungunya Fever ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Musculoskeletal Manifestations Observed in Patients Diagnosed With Chikungunya Virus in 2...
    * Article: Antiviral therapeutics for chikungunya virus.
    * Article: Pre-existing chikungunya virus neutralizing antibodies correlate with risk of symptomatic infection...
    * Chikungunya -- see more articles

## Patient Handouts

    * Chikungunya virus (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![A photo of a mosquito on human
skin](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Zika_Mosquito.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## Related Health Topics

    * Mosquito Bites

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Chikungunya is the National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 30 January 2019 Topic last reviewed: 22 March 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

