Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001028.htm    
                                Description: Retinal artery occlusion is a blockage in one of the small arteries that carry blood to the retina. The retina is a layer of tissue in the back of the eye that is able to sense light.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Retinal artery occlusion

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001028.htm

# Retinal artery occlusion

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Retinal artery occlusion is a blockage in one of the small arteries that carry
blood to the retina. The retina is a layer of tissue in the back of the eye
that is able to sense light.

## Causes

Retinal arteries may become blocked when a blood clot or fat deposits get
stuck in the arteries. These blockages are more likely if there is hardening
of the arteries (atherosclerosis) in the eye.

Clots may travel from other parts of the body and block an artery in the
retina. The most common sources of clots are the heart and carotid artery in
the neck.

Most blockages occur in people with conditions such as:

      * Carotid artery disease, in which the two large blood vessels in the neck become narrowed or blocked
      * Diabetes
      * Heart rhythm problem (atrial fibrillation)
      * Heart valve problem
      * High levels of fat in the blood (hyperlipidemia)
      * High blood pressure
      * Intravenous drug abuse
      * Temporal arteritis (damage to arteries due to an immune response) 

If a branch of the retinal artery is blocked, part of the retina will not
receive enough blood and oxygen. If this happens, you may lose part of your
vision.

## Symptoms

Sudden blurring or loss of vision may occur in:

      * All of one eye (central retinal artery occlusion or CRAO)
      * Part of one eye (branch retinal artery occlusion or BRAO)

The retinal artery occlusion may last for only a few seconds or minutes, or it
may be permanent.

A blood clot in the eye may be a warning sign of clots elsewhere. A clot in
the brain may cause a stroke.

Â

## Exams and Tests

Tests to evaluate the retina may include:

      * Examination of the retina after dilating the pupil
      * Fluorescein angiography
      * Intraocular pressure
      * Pupil reflex response
      * Refraction
      * Retinal photography
      * Slit lamp examination
      * Testing of side vision (visual field examination)
      * Visual acuity

General tests should include:

      * Blood pressure
      * Blood tests, including cholesterol and triglyceride levels and the erythrocyte sedimentation rate
      * Physical examination

Tests to identify the source of a clot from another part of the body:

      * Echocardiogram
      * Electrocardiogram
      * Heart monitor for abnormal heart rhythm
      * Duplex Doppler ultrasound of the carotid arteries

## Treatment

There is no proven treatment for vision loss that involves the whole eye,
unless it is caused by another illness that can be treated.

Several treatments may be tried. To be helpful, these treatments must be given
within 2 to 4 hours after symptoms begin. However, the benefit of these
treatments has never been proven, and they are rarely used.

      * Breathing in (inhaling) a carbon dioxide-oxygen mixture. This treatment causes the arteries of the retina to widen (dilate).
      * Massage of the eye.
      * Removal of fluid from within the eye. The doctor uses a needle to drain a small amount of fluid from the front of the eye. This causes a sudden drop in eye pressure, which can sometimes cause the clot to move into a smaller branch artery where it will cause less damage.
      * The clot-busting drug, tissue plasminogen activator (tPA).

The health care provider should look for the cause of the blockage. Blockages
may be signs of a life-threatening medical problem.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People with blockages of the retinal artery may not get their vision back.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Glaucoma (CRAO only)
      * Partial or complete loss of vision in the affected eye
      * Stroke (due to the same factors that contribute to retinal artery occlusion, not due to the occlusion itself) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have sudden blurring or vision loss.

## Prevention

Measures used to prevent other blood vessel (vascular) diseases, such as
coronary artery disease, may decrease the risk for retinal artery occlusion.
These include:

      * Eating a low-fat diet 
      * Exercising 
      * Stopping smoking 
      * Losing weight if you are overweight 

Sometimes, blood thinners may be used to prevent the artery from becoming
blocked again. Aspirin or other anti-clotting drugs are used if the problem is
in the carotid arteries. Warfarin or other more potent blood thinners are used
if the problem is in the heart.

## Alternative Names

Central retinal artery occlusion; Branch retinal artery occlusion; CRAO; BRAO;
Vision loss - retinal artery occlusion; Blurry vision - retinal artery
occlusion

## Images

      * ![Retina](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8903t.jpg)Retina

## References

Bowling B. Retinal vascular disease. In: Bowling B, ed. _Kanski's Clinical
Ophthalmology_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 13.

Crouch ER, Crouch ER, Grant TR. Ophthalmology. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 17.

Duker JS. Retinal arterial obstruction. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds.
_Ophthalmology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 6.18.

Patel PS, Sadda SR. Retinal artery occlusion. In: Schachat AP, Sadda SR,
Hinton DR, Wilkinson CP, Wiedemann P, eds. _Ryan's Retina_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 54.

Yanoff M, Cameron JD. Diseases of the visual system. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 423.

## Review Date 3/6/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Retinal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RetinalDisorders_thumb.jpg)Retinal
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

