Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003388.htm    
                                Description: Electroretinography is a test to measure the electrical response of the eye    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Electroretinography

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003388.htm

# Electroretinography

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Electroretinography is a test to measure the electrical response of the eye's
light-sensitive cells, called rods and cones. These cells are part of the
retina (the back part of the eye).

## How the Test is Performed

While you are in a sitting position, the health care provider places numbing
drops into your eyes, so you will not have any discomfort during the test.
Your eyes are held open with a small device called a speculum. An electrical
sensor (electrode) is placed on each eye.

The electrode measures the electrical activity of the retina in response to
light. A light flashes, and the electrical response travels from the electrode
to a TV-like screen, where it can be viewed and recorded. The normal response
pattern has waves called A and B.

The provider will take the readings in normal room light and then again in the
dark, after allowing 20 minutes for your eyes to adjust.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary for this test.

## How the Test will Feel

The probes that rest on your eye may feel a little scratchy. The test takes
about 1 hour to perform.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to detect disorders of the retina. It is also useful for
determining if retinal surgery is recommended.

## Normal Results

Normal test results will show a normal A and B pattern in response to each
flash.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

The following conditions may cause abnormal results:

      * Arteriosclerosis with damage to the retina
      * Congenital night blindness
      * Congenital retinoschisis (splitting of the retinal layers)
      * Giant cell arteritis
      * Medicines (chloroquine, hydroxychloroquine)
      * Mucopolysaccharidosis
      * Retinal detachment
      * Rod-cone dystrophy (retinitis pigmentosa)
      * Trauma
      * Vitamin A deficiency

## Risks

The cornea may get a temporary scratch on the surface from the electrode.
Otherwise, there are no risks with this procedure.

## Considerations

You should not rub your eyes for an hour after the test, as this could injure
the cornea. Your provider will talk to you about the results of the test and
what they mean for you.

## Alternative Names

ERG; Electrophysiologic testing

## Images

      * ![Contact lens electrode on eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8781t.jpg)Contact lens electrode on eye

## References

Baloh RW, Jen JC. Neuro-ophthalmology. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 424.

Miyake Y, Shinoda K. Clinical electrophysiology. In: Schachat AP, Sadda SVR,
Hinton DR, Wilkinson CP, Wiedemann P, eds. _Ryan's Retina_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 10.

Reichel E, Klein K. Retinal electrophysiology. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds.
_Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 6.9.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Retinal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RetinalDisorders_thumb.jpg)Retinal
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

