Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001612.htm    
                                Description: Central serous choroidopathy is a disease that causes fluid to build up under the retina. This isÂ the back part of the inner eye that sends sight information to the brain. The fluid leaks from the blood    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Central serous choroidopathy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001612.htm

# Central serous choroidopathy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Central serous choroidopathy is a disease that causes fluid to build up under
the retina. This isÂ the back part of the inner eye that sends sight
information to the brain. The fluid leaks from the blood vessel layer under
the retina. This area is called the choroid.

## Causes

The cause of this condition is unknown.

Men are affected more often than women, and the condition is most common at
around age 45. However, anyone can be affected.

Stress appears to be a risk factor. Early studies found that people with
aggressive, "type A" personalities who are under a lot of stress may be more
likely to develop central serous choroidopathy.

The condition can also occur as a complication of steroid drug use.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

      * Dim and blurred blind spot in the center of vision
      * Distortion of straight lines with the affected eye
      * Objects appearing smaller or farther away with the affected eye 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider can most often diagnose central serous choroidopathy
by dilating the eye and performing an eye exam. Fluorescein angiography
confirms the diagnosis.

This condition may also be diagnosed with a noninvasive test called ocular
coherence tomography (OCT).

## Treatment

Most cases clear up without treatment in 1 or 2 months. Laser treatment or
photodynamic therapy to seal the leak may help restore vision in people with
more severe leakage and vision loss, or in those who have had the disease for
a long time.

People who are using steroid drugs (for example, to treat autoimmune diseases)
should stop using these drugs, if possible. DO NOT stop taking these medicines
without first talking to your provider.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people recover good vision without treatment. However, vision is often
not as good as it was before the condition occurred.

The disease returns in about one half of all people. Even when the disease
returns, it has a good outlook. Rarely, people develop permanent scars that
damage their central vision.

## Possible Complications

A small number of people will have complications from laser treatment that
impair their central vision. That is why most people will be allowed to
recover without treatment, if possible.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your vision gets worse.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention. Although there is a clear association with
stress, there is no evidence that reducing stress can help prevent or treat
central serous choroidopathy.

## Alternative Names

Central serous retinopathy

## Images

      * ![Retina](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8903t.jpg)Retina

## References

Lam D, Das S, Liu S, Lee V, Lu L. Central serous chorioretinopathy. In:
Schachat AP, Sadda SVR, Hinton DR, Wilkinson CP, Wiedemann P, eds. _Ryan's
Retina_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 75.

Kalevar A, Agarwal A. Central serous chorioretinopathy. In: Yanoff M, Duker
JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 6.31.

Tamhankar MA. Visual loss: retinal disorders of neuro-ophthalmic interest. In:
Liu GT, Volpe NJ, Galetta SL, eds. _Liu, Volpe, and Galetta's Neuro-
Ophthalmology_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 4.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Retinal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RetinalDisorders_thumb.jpg)Retinal
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

