Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007330.htm    
                                Description: Retinal vein occlusion is a blockage of the small veins that carry blood away from the retina. The retina is the layer of tissue at the back of the inner eye that converts light images to nerve signals    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Retinal vein occlusion

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007330.htm

# Retinal vein occlusion

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Retinal vein occlusion is a blockage of the small veins that carry blood away
from the retina. The retina is the layer of tissue at the back of the inner
eye that converts light images to nerve signals and sends them to the brain.

## Causes

Retinal vein occlusion is most often caused by hardening of the arteries
(atherosclerosis) and the formation of a blood clot.

Blockage of smaller veins (branch veins or BRVO) in the retina often occurs in
places where retinal arteries that have been thickened or hardened by
atherosclerosis cross over and place pressure on a retinal vein.

Risk factors for retinal vein occlusion include:

      * Atherosclerosis
      * Diabetes
      * High blood pressure (hypertension)
      * Other eye conditions, such as glaucoma, macular edema, or vitreous hemorrhage 

The risk of these disorders increases with age, therefore retinal vein
occlusion most often affects older people.

Blockage of retinal veins may cause other eye problems, including:

      * Glaucoma (high pressure in the eye), caused by new, abnormal blood vessels growing in the front part of the eye
      * Macular edema, caused by the leakage of fluid in the retina 

## Symptoms

Symptoms include sudden blurring or vision loss in all or part of one eye.

## Exams and Tests

Tests to evaluate for vein occlusion include:

      * Exam of the retina after dilating the pupil
      * Fluorescein angiography
      * Intraocular pressure
      * Pupil reflex response
      * Refraction eye exam
      * Retinal photography
      * Slit lamp examination
      * Testing of side vision (visual field examination)
      * Visual acuity test to determine the smallest letters you can read on a chart

Other tests may include:

      * Blood tests for diabetes, high cholesterol, and triglyceride levels
      * Blood tests to look for a clotting or blood thickening (hyperviscosity) problem (in people under age 40 years) 

The health care provider will closely monitor any blockage for several months.
It may take 3 or more months for harmful effects such as glaucoma to develop
after the occlusion.

## Treatment

Many people will regain vision, even without treatment. However, vision rarely
returns to normal. There is no way to reverse or open the blockage.

You may need treatment to prevent another blockage from forming in the same or
the other eye.

      * It's important to manage diabetes, high blood pressure, and high cholesterol levels. 
      * Some people may need to take aspirin or other blood thinners.

Treatment for the complications of retinal vein occlusion may include:

      * Focal laser treatment, if macular edema is present.
      * Injections of anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (anti-VEGF) drugs into the eye. These drugs may block the growth of new blood vessels that can cause glaucoma. This treatment is still being studied.
      * Laser treatment to prevent the growth of new, abnormal blood vessels that leads to glaucoma. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome varies. People with retinal vein occlusion often regain useful
vision.

It is important to properly manage conditions such as macular edema and
glaucoma. However, having either of these complications is more likely to lead
to a poor outcome.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Glaucoma
      * Partial or complete vision loss in the affected eye 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have sudden blurring or vision loss.

## Prevention

Retinal vein occlusion is a sign of a general blood vessel (vascular) disease.
Measures used to prevent other blood vessel diseases may decrease the risk of
retinal vein occlusion.

These measures include:

      * Eating a low-fat diet
      * Getting regular exercise
      * Maintaining an ideal weight
      * Not smoking 

Aspirin or other blood thinners may help prevent blockages in the other eye.

Controlling diabetes may help prevent retinal vein occlusion.

## Alternative Names

Central retinal vein occlusion; Branch retinal vein occlusion; CRVO; BRVO;
Vision loss - retinal vein occlusion; Blurry vision - retinal vein occlusion

## References

Bessette A, Kaiser PK. Branch retinal vein occlusion. In: Schachat AP, Sadda
SVR, Hinton DR, Wilkinson CP, Wiedemann P, eds. _Ryan's Retina_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 56.

Freund KB, Sarraf D, Mieler WF, Yanuzzi LA. Retinal vascular disease. In:
Freund KB, Sarraf D, Mieler WF, Yannuzzi LA, eds. _The Retinal Atlas_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 6.

Goldman DR, Shah CP, Morley MG, Heier JS. Venous occlusive disease of the
retina. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 6.19.

Quiros PA. Urgent neuro-ophthalmic disorders. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds.
_Ophthalmology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 9.24.

## Review Date 3/6/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Retinal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RetinalDisorders_thumb.jpg)Retinal
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

