Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001618.htm    
                                Description: Retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) is abnormal blood vessel development in the retina of the eye. It occurs in infants that are born too early (premature).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Retinopathy of prematurity

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001618.htm

# Retinopathy of prematurity

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) is abnormal blood vessel development in the
retina of the eye. It occurs in infants that are born too early (premature).

## Causes

The blood vessels of the retina (in the back of the eye) begin to develop
about 3 months into pregnancy. In most cases, they are fully developed at the
time of normal birth. The eyes may not develop properly if a baby is born very
early. The vessels may stop growing or grow abnormally from the retina into
the back of the eye. Because the vessels are fragile, they can leak and cause
bleeding in the eye.

Scar tissue may develop and pull the retina loose from the inner surface of
the eye (retinal detachment). In severe cases, this can result in vision loss.

In the past, the use of too much oxygen in treating premature babies caused
vessels to grow abnormally. Better methods are now available for monitoring
oxygen. As a result, the problem has become less common, especially in
developed countries. However, there is still uncertainty about the right level
of oxygen for premature babies at different ages. Researchers are studying
other factors besides oxygen which appear to influence the risk of ROP.

Today, the risk of developing ROP depends on the degree of prematurity.
Smaller babies with more medical problems are at higher risk.

Almost all babies who are born before 30 weeks or weigh less than 3 pounds
(1500 grams or 1.5 kilograms) at birth are screened for the condition. Some
high-risk babies who weigh 3 to 4.5 pounds (1.5 to 2 kilograms) or who are
born after 30 weeks should also be screened.

In addition to prematurity, other risk factors may include:

      * Brief stop in breathing (apnea)
      * Heart disease
      * High carbon dioxide (CO2) in the blood
      * Infection
      * Low blood acidity (pH)
      * Low blood oxygen
      * Respiratory distress
      * Slow heart rate (bradycardia)
      * Transfusions 

The rate of ROP in most premature infants has gone down greatly in developed
countries over the past few decades due to better care in the neonatal
intensive care unit (NICU). However, more babies born very early are now able
to survive, and these very premature infants are at the highest risk for ROP.

## Symptoms

The blood vessel changes cannot be seen with the naked eye. An eye exam by an
ophthalmologist is needed to reveal such problems.

There are five stages of ROP:

      * Stage I: There is mildly abnormal blood vessel growth.
      * Stage II: Blood vessel growth is moderately abnormal.
      * Stage III: Blood vessel growth is severely abnormal.
      * Stage IV: Blood vessel growth is severely abnormal and there is a partially detached retina.
      * Stage V: There is a total retinal detachment. 

An infant with ROP may also be classified as having "plus disease" if the
abnormal blood vessels match pictures used to diagnose the condition.

Symptoms of severe ROP include:

      * Abnormal eye movements
      * Crossed eyes
      * Severe nearsightedness
      * White-looking pupils (leukocoria) 

## Exams and Tests

Babies who are born before 30 weeks, weigh less than 1,500 grams (about 3
pounds or 1.5 kilograms) at birth, or are high risk for other reasons should
have retinal exams.

In most cases, the first exam should be within 4 to 9 weeks after birth,
depending on the baby's gestational age.

      * Babies born at 27 weeks or later most often have their exam at 4 weeks of age. 
      * Those born earlier most often have exams later. 

Follow-up exams are based on the results of the first exam. Babies do not need
another exam if the blood vessels in both retinas have completed normal
development.

Parents should know what follow-up eye exams are needed before the baby leaves
the nursery.

## Treatment

Early treatment has been shown to improve a baby's chances for normal vision.
Treatment should start within 72 hours of the eye exam.

Some babies with "plus disease" need immediate treatment.

      * Laser therapy (photocoagulation) may be used to prevent complications of advanced ROP. 
      * The laser stops the abnormal blood vessels from growing. 
      * The treatment can be done in the nursery using portable equipment. To work well, it must be done before the retina develops scarring or detaches from the rest of the eye. 
      * Other treatments, such as injecting an antibody that blocks VEG-F (a blood vessel growth factor) into the eye, are still being studied.

Surgery is needed if the retina detaches. Surgery does not always result in
good vision.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most infants with severe vision loss related to ROP have other problems
related to early birth. They will need many different treatments.

About 1 out of 10 infants with early changes will develop more severe retinal
disease. Severe ROP may lead to major vision problems or blindness. The key
factor in the outcome is early detection and treatment.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include severe nearsightedness or blindness.

## Prevention

The best way to prevent this condition is to take steps to avoid premature
birth. Preventing other problems of prematurity may also help prevent ROP.

## Alternative Names

Retrolental fibroplasia; ROP

## References

Fierson WM; American Academy of Pediatrics Section on Ophthalmology; American
Academy of Ophthalmology; American Association for Pediatric Ophthalmology and
Strabismus; American Association of Certified Orthoptists. Screening
examination of premature infants for retinopathy of prematurity. _Pediatrics_.
2018;142(6):e20183061. _Pediatrics_. 2019;143(3):2018-3810. PMID: 30824604
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30824604.

Olitsky SE, Marsh JD. Disorders of the retina and vitreous. In: Kliegman RM,
St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 648.

Sun Y, HellstrÃ¶m A, Smith LEH. Retinopathy of prematurity. In: Martin RJ,
Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal
Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 96.

Thanos A, Drenser KA, Capone AC. Retinopathy of prematurity. In: Yanoff M,
Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap
6.21.

## Review Date 4/4/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Childrenâs Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Premature
Babies](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PrematureBabies_thumb.jpg)Premature
Babies _Read more_

![Retinal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RetinalDisorders_thumb.jpg)Retinal
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

