Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000784.htm    
                                Description: Amaurosis fugax is a temporary loss of vision in one or both eyes due to a lack of blood flow to the retina. The retina is the light-sensitive layer of tissue at the back of the eyeball.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Amaurosis fugax

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000784.htm

# Amaurosis fugax

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Amaurosis fugax is a temporary loss of vision in one or both eyes due to a
lack of blood flow to the retina. The retina is the light-sensitive layer of
tissue at the back of the eyeball.

## Causes

Amaurosis fugax is not itself a disease. Instead, it is a sign of other
disorders. Amaurosis fugax can occur from different causes. One cause is when
a blood clot or a piece of plaque blocks an artery in the eye. The blood clot
or plaque usually travels from a larger artery, such as the carotid artery in
the neck or an artery in the heart, to an artery in the eye.

Plaque is a hard substance that forms when fat, cholesterol, and other
substances build up in the walls of arteries. Risk factors include:

      * Heart disease, especially irregular heartbeat
      * Alcohol abuse
      * Cocaine use
      * Diabetes
      * Family history of stroke
      * High blood pressure
      * High cholesterol
      * Increasing age
      * Smoking (people who smoke one pack a day double their risk for a stroke)

Amaurosis fugax can also occur because of other disorders such as:

      * Other eye problems, such as inflammation of the optic nerve (optic neuritis)
      * Blood vessel disease called polyarteritis nodosa
      * Migraine headaches
      * Brain tumor
      * Head injury
      * Multiple sclerosis (MS), inflammation of the nerves due to the body's immune cells attacking the nervous system
      * Systemic lupus erythematosus, an autoimmune disease in which the body's immune cells attack healthy tissue throughout the body

## Symptoms

Symptoms include the sudden loss of vision in one or both eyes. This usually
lasts for a few seconds to several minutes. Afterward, vision returns to
normal. Some people describe the loss of vision as a gray or black shade
coming down over the eye.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a complete eye and nervous system exam.
In some cases, an eye exam will reveal a bright spot where the clot is
blocking the retinal artery.

Tests that may be done include:

      * Ultrasound or magnetic resonance angiography scan of the carotid artery to check for blood clots or plaque
      * Blood tests to check cholesterol and blood sugar levels
      * Tests of the heart, such as an ECG to check its electrical activity

## Treatment

Treatment of amaurosis fugax depends on its cause. When amaurosis fugax is due
to a blood clot or plaque, the concern is to prevent a stroke. The following
can help prevent a stroke:

      * Avoid fatty foods and follow a healthy, low-fat diet. DO NOT drink more than 1 to 2 alcoholic drinks a day.
      * Exercise regularly: 30 minutes a day if you are not overweight; 60 to 90 minutes a day if you are overweight.
      * Quit smoking.
      * Most people should aim for a blood pressure below 120 to 130/80 mm Hg. If you have diabetes or have had a stroke, your doctor may tell you to aim for a lower blood pressure.
      * If you have diabetes, heart disease, or hardening of the arteries, your LDL (bad) cholesterol should be lower than 70 mg/dL.
      * Follow your doctor's treatment plans if you have high blood pressure, diabetes, high cholesterol, or heart disease.

Your doctor may alsoÂ recommend:

      * No treatment. You may only need regular visits to check the health of your heart and carotid arteries.
      * Aspirin, warfarin (Coumadin), or other blood-thinning drugs to lower your risk for stroke. 

If a large part of the carotid artery appears blocked, carotid endarterectomy
surgery is done to remove the blockage. The decision to do surgery is also
based on your overall health.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Amaurosis fugax increases your risk for stroke.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if any vision loss occurs. If symptoms last longer than a
few minutes or if there are other symptoms with the vision loss, seek medical
attention right away.

## Alternative Names

Transient monocular blindness; Transient monocular visual loss; TMVL;
Transient monocular visual loss; Transient binocular visual loss; TBVL;
Temporary visual loss - amaurosis fugax

## Images

      * ![Retina](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8903t.jpg)Retina

## References

Biller J, Ruland S, Schneck MJ. Ischemic cerebrovascular disease. In: Daroff
RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 65.

Brown GC, Sharma S, Brown MM. Ocular ischemic syndrome. In: Schachat AP, Sadda
SVR, Hinton DR, Wilkinson CP, Wiedemann P, eds. _Ryan's Retina_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 62.

Meschia JF, Bushnell C, Boden-Albala B, et al. Guidelines for the primary
prevention of stroke: a statement for healthcare professionals from the
American Heart Association/American Stroke Association. _Stroke_.
2014;45(12):3754-3832. PMID: 25355838 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25355838.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Retinal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RetinalDisorders_thumb.jpg)Retinal
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

