Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001493.htm    
                                Description: Adhesions are bands of scar-like tissue that form betweenÂ two surfaces inside the body and cause them to stick together.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Adhesion

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001493.htm

# Adhesion

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Adhesions are bands of scar-like tissue that form betweenÂ two surfaces inside
the body and cause them to stick together.

## Causes

With movement of the body, internal organs such as the bowel or uterus are
normally able to shift and to slide past each other. This is because these
tissues and organs in the abdominal cavity have smooth, slippery surfaces.
Inflammation (swelling), surgery, or injury can cause adhesions to form and
prevent this movement. Adhesions can occur almost anywhere in the body,
including:

      * Joints, such as the shoulder
      * Eyes
      * Inside the abdomen or pelvis

Adhesions can become larger or tighter over time. Problems may occur if the
adhesions cause an organ or body part to:

      * Twist
      * Pull out of position
      * Be unable to move normally

The risk of forming adhesions is high after bowel or female organ surgeries.
Surgery using a laparoscope is less likely to cause adhesions than open
surgery.

Other causes of adhesions in the abdomen or pelvis include:

      * Appendicitis, most often when the appendix breaks open (ruptures)
      * Cancer
      * Endometriosis
      * Infections in the abdomen and pelvis
      * Radiation treatment

Adhesions around the joints may occur:

      * After surgery or trauma
      * With certain types of arthritis
      * With overuse of a joint or tendon

## Symptoms

Adhesions in joints, tendons, or ligaments make it harder to move the joint.
They may also cause pain.

Adhesions in the belly (abdomen) may cause a blockage of the intestines.
Symptoms include:

      * Bloating or swelling of your belly
      * Constipation
      * Nausea and vomiting
      * No longer being able to pass gas
      * Pain in the belly that is severe and crampy 

Adhesions in the pelvis may cause long-term (chronic) pelvic pain.

## Exams and Tests

Most of the time, the adhesions cannot be seen using x-rays or imaging tests.

      * Hysterosalpingography may help detect adhesions inside the uterus or fallopian tubes.
      * X-rays of the abdomen, barium contrast studies, and CT scans may help detect a blockage of the intestines caused by adhesions.

Endoscopy (a way of looking inside the body using a flexible tube that has a
small camera on the end) may help diagnose adhesions:

      * Hysteroscopy looks inside the uterus
      * Laparoscopy looks inside the abdomen and pelvis

## Treatment

Surgery may be done to separate the adhesions. This can let the organ regain
normal movement and reduce symptoms. However, the risk for more adhesions goes
up with more surgeries.

Depending on the location of the adhesions, a barrier may be placed at the
time of surgery to help reduce the chance of the adhesions returning.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is good in most cases.

## Possible Complications

Adhesions can cause various disorders, depending on the tissues affected.

      * In the eye, adhesion of the iris to the lens can lead to glaucoma.
      * In the intestines, adhesions can cause partial or complete bowel obstruction.
      * Adhesions inside the uterine cavity can cause a condition called Asherman syndrome. This can cause a woman to have irregular menstrual cycles and be unable to get pregnant.
      * Pelvic adhesions that involve scarring of the fallopian tubes can lead to infertility and reproductive problems.
      * Abdominal and pelvic adhesions can cause chronic pain.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have:

      * Abdominal pain
      * An inability to pass gas
      * Nausea and vomiting that do not go away
      * Pain in the belly that is severe and crampy

## Alternative Names

Pelvic adhesion; Intraperitoneal adhesion; Intrauterine adhesion

## Images

      * ![Pelvic adhesions](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17118t.jpg)Pelvic adhesions
      * ![Ovarian cyst](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9725t.jpg)Ovarian cyst

## References

Kulaylat MN, Dayton MT. Surgical complications. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 12.

Nakamura N, Rodeo SA, Alini M, Maher S, Madry H, Erggelet C. Physiology and
pathophysiology of musculoskeletal tissues. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds.
_DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 4th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 1.

National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases website.
Abdominal adhesions. www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/digestive-
diseases/abdominal-adhesions. Updated September 2013. Accessed February 19,
2018.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Exam](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Adhesions_thumb.jpg)Adhesions _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

