Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000605.htm    
                                Description: The placenta connects the fetus (unborn baby) to the mother    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Placenta abruptio

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000605.htm

# Placenta abruptio

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The placenta connects the fetus (unborn baby) to the mother's uterus. It
allows the baby to get nutrients, blood, and oxygen from the mother. It also
helps the baby get rid of waste.

Placenta abruptio (also called placental abruption) is when the placenta
separates from the inner wall of the uterus before the baby is born.

## More About This Condition

In most pregnancies, the placenta stays attached to the upper part of the
uterine wall.

In a small number of pregnancies, the placenta detaches (pulls itself from the
wall of the uterus) too early. Most of the time, only part of the placenta
pulls away. Other times it pulls away completely. If this happens, it is most
often in the 3rd trimester.

The placenta is the lifeline of a fetus. Serious problems occur if it
detaches. The baby gets less oxygen and fewer nutrients. Some babies become
growth restricted (very small), and in a small number of cases, it is fatal.
It can also cause significant blood loss for the mother.

## What Causes It?

No one knows what causes placental abruption. But these factors raise a
woman's risk for it:

      * History of placental abruption in previous pregnancy
      * Long-term (chronic) high blood pressure
      * Sudden high blood pressure in pregnant women who had normal blood pressure in the past
      * Heart disease
      * Abdominal trauma
      * Smoking
      * Alcohol or cocaine use
      * Placental abruption in an earlier pregnancy
      * Fibroids in the uterus
      * An injury to the mother (such as a car crash or fall in which the abdomen was hit)
      * Being African American or Caucasian
      * Being older than 40 

## Signs of Placental Abruption

The most common symptoms are vaginal bleeding and painful contractions. The
amount of bleeding depends on how much of the placenta has detached. Sometimes
the blood that collects when the placenta detaches stays between the placenta
and uterine wall, so you may not have bleeding from your vagina.

      * If the separation is slight, you may have only light bleeding. You may also have cramps or feel tender in your belly.
      * If the separation is moderate, you may have heavier bleeding. Cramps and belly pain will be more severe.
      * If more than half the placenta detaches, you may have belly pain and heavy bleeding. You may also have contractions. The baby may move more or less than normal.

If you have any of these symptoms during your pregnancy, tell your health care
provider right away.

## How is Placental Abruption Treated?

Your provider will:

      * Do a physical exam
      * Observe your contractions and how your baby responds to them
      * Sometimes do an ultrasound to check your placenta (but ultrasound does not always show a placental abruption)
      * Check your baby's heart rate and rhythm

If your placental abruption is small, your provider may put you on bed rest to
stop your bleeding. After a few days, most women can go back to their normal
activities in most cases.

For a moderate separation, you will likely need to stay in the hospital. In
the hospital:

      * Your baby's heart rate will be monitored.
      * You might need a blood transfusion.
      * If your baby shows any signs of distress, your provider may induce your labor early. If you cannot give birth vaginally, you will need a C-section. 

Severe placental abruption is an emergency. You will need to deliver right
away, most often by C-section. It is very rare, but a baby can be stillborn if
there is a severe abruption.

## Can I Prevent Placental Abruption?

You cannot prevent placental abruption, but you can control the risk factors
related to it by:

      * Keeping high blood pressure, heart disease, and diabetes under control
      * Not using tobacco, alcohol, or cocaine
      * Following your provider's recommendations about ways to lower your risk if you had an abruption in a past pregnancy 

## Alternative Names

Premature placental separation; Placental separation; Placental abruption;
Vaginal bleeding - abruption; Pregnancy - abruption

## Images

      * ![Cesarean section](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1079t.jpg)Cesarean section
      * ![Ultrasound in pregnancy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1110t.jpg)Ultrasound in pregnancy
      * ![Anatomy of a normal placenta](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17010t.jpg)Anatomy of a normal placenta
      * ![Placenta](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19505t.jpg)Placenta
      * ![Placenta](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19681t.jpg)Placenta
      * ![Ultrasound, normal placenta - Braxton Hicks](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2254t.jpg)Ultrasound, normal placenta - Braxton Hicks
      * ![Ultrasound, normal fetus - arms and legs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2261t.jpg)Ultrasound, normal fetus - arms and legs
      * ![Ultrasound, normal relaxed placenta](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2262t.jpg)Ultrasound, normal relaxed placenta
      * ![Ultrasound, color - normal umbilical cord](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2265t.jpg)Ultrasound, color - normal umbilical cord
      * ![Placenta](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9980t.jpg)Placenta

## References

Francois KE, Foley MR. Antepartum and postpartum hemorrhage. In: Gabbe SG,
Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 18.

Hull AD, Resnik R, Silver RM. Placenta previa and accreta, vasa previa,
subchorionic hemorrhage, and abruptio placentae. In: Resnik R, Lockwood CJ,
Moore TR, Greene MF, Copel JA, Silver RM, eds. _Creasy and Resnik's Maternal-
Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 46.

Salhi BA, Nagrani S. Acute complications of pregnancy. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and
Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 178.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Health Problems in Pregnancy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

