Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000599.htm    
                                Description: Hydramnios is a condition that occurs when too much amniotic fluid builds up during pregnancy. It is also called amniotic fluid disorder, or polyhydramnios.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hydramnios

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000599.htm

# Hydramnios

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hydramnios is a condition that occurs when too much amniotic fluid builds up
during pregnancy. It is also called amniotic fluid disorder, or
polyhydramnios.

## What Causes Hydramnios?

Amniotic fluid is a liquid that surrounds and cushions the fetus (unborn baby)
inside the uterus. It comes from the baby's kidneys, and it goes into the
uterus from the baby's urine. The fluid is absorbed when the baby swallows it
and through breathing motions.

The amount of fluid increases until the 36th week of pregnancy. After that, it
slowly decreases. If the fetus makes too much urine or does not swallow
enough, amniotic fluid builds up. This causes hydramnios.

## What Are the Risks of Hydramnios?

Mild hydramnios may not cause any problems. Often, extra fluid that appears
during the second trimester returns to normal on its own. Mild hydramnios is
more common than severe hydramnios.

Hydramnios may occur in normal pregnancies with more than one baby (twins,
triplets, or more).

Severe hydramnios may mean there is a problem with the fetus. If you have
severe hydramnios, your health care provider will look for these problems:

      * Birth defects of the brain and spinal column
      * Blockages in the digestive system
      * A genetic problem (a problem with the chromosomes that is inherited)

Many times, the cause of hydramnios is not found. In some cases, it is linked
to pregnancy in women who have diabetes or when the fetus is very large.

## How Will I Know if I Have Hydramnios?

Mild hydramnios often has no symptoms. Be sure to tell your provider if you
have:

      * A hard time breathing
      * Belly pain
      * Swelling or bloating of your belly

To check for hydramnios, your provider will measure your "fundal height"
during your prenatal check-ups. Fundal height is the distance from your pubic
bone to the top of your uterus. Your provider will also check your baby's
growth by feeling your uterus through your belly.

Your provider will do an ultrasound if there is a chance that you may have
hydramnios. This will measure the amount of amniotic fluid around your baby.

## How is Hydramnios Treated?

In some cases, the symptoms of hydramnios can be treated but the cause cannot
be treated.

      * Your provider may want you to stay in the hospital.
      * Your provider may also prescribe medicine to prevent a preterm delivery.
      * They might remove some of the extra amniotic fluid to relieve your symptoms.
      * Nonstress tests can be done to make sure the fetus is not in danger (Nonstress tests involve listening to the baby's heart rate and monitoring contractions for 20 to 30 minutes.) 

Your provider may also do tests to find out why you have extra fluid. These
might include:

      * Blood tests to check for diabetes or an infection
      * Amniocentesis (a test that checks amniotic fluid)

## Hydramnios and Your Delivery

Hydramnios may cause you to go into labor early.

It is easy for a fetus with a lot of fluid around it to flip and turn. This
means there is a greater chance of being in a feet-down position (breech) when
it is time to deliver. Breech babies can sometimes be moved into a head-down
position, but they often have to be delivered by C-section.

## Can I Prevent Hydramnios?

You cannot prevent hydramnios. If you have symptoms, tell your provider so you
can be checked and treated, if needed.

## Alternative Names

Amniotic fluid disorder; Polyhydramnios; Pregnancy complications - hydramnios

## References

Buhimschi CS, Mesiano S, Muglia LJ. Pathogenesis of spontaneous preterm birth.
In: Resnik R, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, Copel JA, Silver RM, eds.
_Creasy and Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 8th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 7.

Gilbert WM. Amniotic fluid disorders. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et
al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 35.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Health Problems in Pregnancy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

