Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000581.htm    
                                Description: Your health care provider may order you to stay in bed for a few days or weeks. This is called bed rest.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bed rest during pregnancy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000581.htm

# Bed rest during pregnancy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your health care provider may order you to stay in bed for a few days or
weeks. This is called bed rest.

Bed rest used to be recommended routinely for a number of pregnancy problems,
including:

      * High blood pressure
      * Premature or preterm changes in the cervix
      * Problems with the placenta
      * Vaginal bleeding
      * Early labor
      * More than one baby
      * History of early birth or miscarriage
      * Baby is not growing well
      * Baby has medical problems

Now, though, most providers have stopped recommending bed rest except in rare
circumstances. The reason is that studies have not shown that being on bed
rest can prevent preterm birth or other pregnancy problems. And some
complications may also occur due to bed rest.

If your provider recommends bed rest, discuss the pros and cons carefully with
him or her.

## References

Bigelow CA, Factor SH, Miller M, Weintraub A, Stone J. Pilot randomized
controlled trial to evaluate the impact of bed rest on maternal and fetal
outcomes in women with preterm premature rupture of the membranes. _Am J
Perinatol_. 2016;33(4):356-363. PMID: 26461925
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26461925.

Harper LM, Tita A, Karumanchi SA. Pregnancy-related hypertension. In: Resnick
R, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, Copel JA, Silver RM, eds. _Creasy and
Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 48.

Newman RB, Unal ER. Multiple gestations. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL,
et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 32.

Simhan HN, Iams JD, Romero R. Preterm labor and birth. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl
JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 29.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Health Problems in Pregnancy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

