Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001485.htm    
                                Description: The placenta is the link between you and your baby. When the placenta does not work as well as it should, your baby can get less oxygen and nutrients from you. As a result, your baby may:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Placental insufficiency

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001485.htm

# Placental insufficiency

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The placenta is the link between you and your baby. When the placenta does not
work as well as it should, your baby can get less oxygen and nutrients from
you. As a result, your baby may:

      * Not grow well
      * Show signs of fetal stress (this means the baby's heart does not work normally)
      * Have a harder time during labor

## Causes

The placenta may not work well, either due to pregnancy problems or social
habits. These may include:Â

      * Diabetes
      * Going past your due date 
      * High blood pressure during pregnancy (called preeclampsia)
      * Medical conditions that increase the mother's chances of blood clots
      * Smoking
      * Taking cocaine or other drugs 

Certain medicines can also increase the risk of placental insufficiency.

In some cases, the placenta:

      * May have an abnormal shape
      * May not grow big enough (more likely if you are carrying twins or other multiples)
      * Does not attach correctly to the surface of the womb
      * Breaks away from the surface of the womb or bleeds prematurely 

## Symptoms

A woman with placental insufficiency usually does not have any symptoms.
However, certain diseases, such as preeclampsia, which can be symptomatic, can
cause placental insufficiency.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will measure the size of your growing womb (uterus)
at each visit, starting about halfway through your pregnancy.

If your uterus is not growing as expected, a pregnancy ultrasound will be
done. This test will measure your baby's size and growth, and assess the size
and placement of the placenta.

Other times, problems with the placenta or your baby's growth may be found on
a routine ultrasound that is done during your pregnancy.

Either way, your provider will order tests to check how your baby is doing.
The tests may show that your baby is active and healthy, and the amount of
amniotic fluid is normal. Or, these tests can show that the baby is having
problems.

You may be asked to keep a daily record of how often your baby moves or kicks.

## Treatment

The next steps your provider will take depend on:

      * The results of tests
      * Your due date
      * Other problems that may be present, such as high blood pressure or diabetes 

If your pregnancy is less than 37 weeks and the tests show that your baby is
not under too much stress, your provider may decide to wait longer. Sometimes
you may need to get more rest. You will have tests often to make sure your
baby is doing well. Treating high blood pressure or diabetes may also help
improve the baby's growth.

If your pregnancy is over 37 weeks or tests show your baby is not doing well,
your provider may want to deliver your baby. Labor may be induced (you will be
given medicine to make labor start), or you may need a cesarean delivery
(C-section).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Problems with the placenta can affect the developing baby's growth. The baby
cannot grow and develop normally in the womb if it does not get enough oxygen
and nutrients.

When this occurs, it is called intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR). This
increases the chances of complications during pregnancy and delivery.

## Prevention

Getting prenatal care early in pregnancy will help make sure that the mother
is as healthy as possible during the pregnancy.

Smoking, alcohol, and other recreational drugs can interfere with the baby's
growth. Avoiding these substances may help prevent placental insufficiency and
other pregnancy complications.

## Alternative Names

Placental dysfunction; Uteroplacental vascular insufficiency; Oligohydramnios

## Images

      * ![Anatomy of a normal placenta](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17010t.jpg)Anatomy of a normal placenta
      * ![Placenta](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19505t.jpg)Placenta

## References

Carpenter JR, Branch DW. Collagen vascular diseases in pregnancy. In: Gabbe
SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 46.

Lausman A, Kingdom J; Maternal Fetal Medicine Committee, et al. Intrauterine
growth restriction: screening, diagnosis, and management. _J Obstet Gynaecol
Can_. 2013;35(8):741-748. PMID: 24007710 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24007710.

Rampersad R, Macones GA. Prolonged and postterm pregnancy. In: Gabbe SG,
Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 36.

Resnik R. Intrauterine growth restriction. In: Resnik R, Lockwood CJ, Moore
TR, Greene MF, Copel JA, Silver RM, eds. _Creasy and Resnik's Maternal-Fetal
Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 47.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Health Problems in
Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HealthConditionsinPregnancy_thumb.jpg)Health
Problems in Pregnancy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

