Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001499.htm    
                                Description: Hyperemesis gravidarum is extreme, persistent nausea and vomiting during pregnancy. It can lead to dehydration, weight loss, and electrolyte imbalances. Morning sickness is mild nausea and vomiting that    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hyperemesis gravidarum

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001499.htm

# Hyperemesis gravidarum

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hyperemesis gravidarum is extreme, persistent nausea and vomiting during
pregnancy. It can lead to dehydration, weight loss, and electrolyte
imbalances. Morning sickness is mild nausea and vomiting that occurs in early
pregnancy.

## Causes

Most women have some nausea or vomiting (morning sickness), particularly
during the first 3 months of pregnancy. The exact cause of nausea and vomiting
during pregnancy is not known. However, it is believed to be caused by a
rapidly rising blood level of a hormone called human chorionic gonadotropin
(HCG). HCG is released by the placenta. Mild morning sickness is common.
Hyperemesis gravidarium is less common and more severe.

Women with hyperemesis gravidarum have extreme nausea and vomiting during
pregnancy. It can cause a weight loss of more than 5% of body weight. The
condition can happen in any pregnancy, but is a little more likely if you are
pregnant with twins (or more babies), or if you have a hydatidiform mole.
Women are at higher risk for hyperemesis if they have had the problem in
previous pregnancies or are prone to motion sickness.

## Symptoms

Morning sickness can cause decreased appetite, low level nausea, or vomiting.
This is different from true hyperemesis because people are typically still
able to eat and drink fluids some of the time.

Symptoms of hyperemesis gravidarum are much more severe. They may include:

      * Severe, persistent nausea and vomiting during pregnancy
      * Salivating a lot more than normal
      * Weight loss
      * Signs of dehydration such as dark urine, dry skin, weakness, lightheadedness or fainting
      * Constipation
      * Inability to take in adequate amounts of fluid or nutrition

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will do a physical exam. Your blood pressure may be
low. Your pulse may be high.

The following laboratory tests will be done to check for signs of dehydration:

      * Complete blood count
      * Electrolytes
      * Urine ketones
      * Weight loss

Your provider may need to run tests to make sure you do not have liver and
gastrointestinal problems.

A pregnancy ultrasound will be done to see if you are carrying twins or more
babies. Ultrasound also checks for a hydatidiform mole.

## Treatment

Morning sickness can most often be managed by avoiding triggering foods that
trigger the problem and drinking plenty of fluids when the symptoms let up in
order to stay hydrated.

If your nausea and vomiting causes you to become dehydrated, you will receive
fluids through an IV. You also may be given anti-nausea medicine. If nausea
and vomiting is so severe that you and your baby might be in danger, you will
be admitted to the hospital for treatment. If you can't eat enough to get the
nutrients you and your baby need, you may get extra nutrients either through
an IV or a tube placed into your stomach.

To help manage symptoms at home, try these tips.

 **Avoid triggers.** You may notice that certain things can trigger nausea and
vomiting. These may include:

      * Certain noises and sounds, even the radio or TV
      * Bright or blinking lights
      * Toothpaste
      * Smells such as perfume and scented bathing and grooming products
      * Pressure on your stomach (wear loose-fitting clothes)
      * Riding in a car
      * Taking showers

 **Eat and drink when you are able.** Take advantage of the times you feel
better to eat and drink. Eat small, frequent meals. Try dry, bland foods such
as crackers or potatoes. Try eating any foods that appeal to you. See if you
can tolerate nutritious smoothies with fruits or vegetables.

Increase fluids during times of the day when you feel least nauseated.
Seltzer, ginger ale, or other sparkling drinks may help. You can also try
using low-dose ginger supplements or acupressure wrist bands to ease symptoms.

Vitamin B6 (no more than 100 mg daily) has been shown to decrease nausea in
early pregnancy. Ask your provider if this vitamin might help you. Another
medicine called doxylamine (Unisom) has been shown to be very effective and
safe when combined with Vitamin B6 for nausea in pregnancy. You can buy this
medicine without a prescription.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Morning sickness typically is mild, but persistent. It can begin between 4 and
8 weeks of pregnancy. It typically goes away by 16 to 18 weeks of pregnancy.
Severe nausea and vomiting may also start between 4 and 8 weeks of pregnancy
and often goes away by weeks 14 to 16. Some women will continue to have nausea
and vomiting for their entire pregnancy. With proper identification of
symptoms and careful follow-up, serious complications for the baby or mother
are rare.

## Possible Complications

Severe vomiting is harmful because it leads to dehydration and poor weight
gain during pregnancy. Rarely, a woman may have bleeding in her esophagus or
other serious problems from constant vomiting.

The condition can make it difficult to continue to work or take care of
yourself. It can cause anxiety and depression in some women that lingers after
the pregnancy.  

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you are pregnant and have severe nausea and vomiting or
if you have any of the following symptoms:

      * Signs of dehydration
      * Unable to tolerate any fluids for over 12 hours
      * Lightheadedness or dizziness
      * Blood in the vomit
      * Abdominal pain
      * Weight loss of more than 5 lb

## Alternative Names

Nausea - hyperemesis; Vomiting - hyperemesis; Morning sickness - hyperemesis;
Pregnancy - hyperemesis

## References

Cappell MS. Gastrointestinal disorders during pregnancy. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl
JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 48.

Gordon A, Love A. Nausea and vomiting in pregnancy. In: Rakel D, ed.
_Integrative Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 54.

Kelly TF, Savides TJ. Gastrointestinal disease in pregnancy. In: Resnik R,
Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, Copel JA, Silver RM, eds. _Creasy and
Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 63.

Malagelada JR, Malagelada C. Nausea and vomiting. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 15.

Salhi BA, Nagrani S. Acute complications of pregnancy. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and
Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 178.

## Review Date 12/30/2018

Updated by: LaQuita Martinez, MD, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology,
Emory Johns Creek Hospital, Alpharetta, GA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD,
MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Health Problems in
Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HealthConditionsinPregnancy_thumb.jpg)Health
Problems in Pregnancy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

