Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007260.htm    
                                Description: Osteonecrosis is bone death caused by poor blood supply. It is most common in the hip and shoulder, but can affect other large joints such as the knee, elbow, wrist and ankle.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Osteonecrosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007260.htm

# Osteonecrosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Osteonecrosis is bone death caused by poor blood supply. It is most common in
the hip and shoulder, but can affect other large joints such as the knee,
elbow, wrist and ankle.

## Causes

Osteonecrosis occurs when part of the bone does not get blood and dies. After
a while, the bone can collapse. If osteonecrosis is not treated, the joint
deteriorates, leading to severe arthritis.

Osteonecrosis can be caused by disease or by severe trauma, such as a fracture
or dislocation, that affects the blood supply to the bone. Osteonecrosis can
also occur without trauma or disease. This is called idiopathic -- meaning it
occurs without any known cause.

The following are possible causes:

      * Using oral or intravenous steroids
      * Excessive alcohol use
      * Sickle cell disease
      * Dislocation or fractures around a joint
      * Clotting disorders
      * HIV or taking HIV drugs
      * Radiation therapyÂ or chemotherapy
      * Gaucher disease (disease in which harmful substance build up in the certain organs and the bone)
      * Systemic lupus erythematosus (an autoimmune disease in which the body's immune system mistakenly attacks healthy tissue such as the bone)
      * Legg-Calve-Perthes disease (childhood disease in which the thigh bone in the hip doesn't get enough blood, causing the bone to die)
      * Decompression sickness from a lot of deep sea diving 

When osteonecrosis occurs in the shoulder joint, it is usually due to long-
term treatment with steroids, a history of trauma to the shoulder, or the
person has sickle cell disease.

## Symptoms

There are no symptoms in the early stages. As bone damage worsens, you may
have the following symptoms:

      * Pain in the joint that may increase over time and becomes severe if the bone collapses 
      * Pain that occurs even at rest 
      * Limited range of motion
      * Groin pain, if the hip joint is affected
      * Limping, if the condition occurs in the leg
      * Difficulty with overhead movement, if the shoulder joint is affected

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will do a physical exam to find out if you have any
diseases or conditions that may affect your bones. You will be asked about
your symptoms and medical history.

Be sure to let your provider know about any medicines or vitamin supplements
you are taking, even over-the-counter medicine.

After the exam, your provider will order one or more of the following tests:

      * X-ray
      * MRI
      * Bone scan
      * CT scan

## Treatment

If your provider knows the cause of osteonecrosis, part of the treatment will
be aimed at the underlying condition. For example, if a blood clotting
disorder is the cause, treatment will consist, in part, of clot-dissolving
medicine.

If the condition is caught early, you will take pain relievers and limit use
of the affected area. This may include using crutches if your hip, knee, or
ankle is affected. You may need to do range-of-motion exercises. Nonsurgical
treatment can often slow the progression of osteonecrosis, but most people
will need surgery.

Surgical options include:

      * A bone graft
      * A bone graft along with its blood supply (vascularized bone graft)
      * Removing part of the inside of the bone (core decompression) to relieve pressure and allow new blood vessels to form
      * Cutting the bone and changing its alignment to relieve stress on the bone or joint (osteotomy)
      * Total joint replacement

## Support Groups

You can find more information and support resources at the following
organization:

      * National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases -- www.niams.nih.gov/health-topics/osteonecrosis
      * The Arthritis Foundation -- www.arthritis.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you do depends on the following:

      * The cause of the osteonecrosis
      * How severe the disease is when diagnosed
      * Amount of bone involved
      * Your age and overall health 

Outcome may vary from complete healing to permanent damage in the affected
bone.

## Possible Complications

Advanced osteonecrosis can lead to osteoarthritis and permanent decreased
mobility. Severe cases may require joint replacement.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms.

## Prevention

Many cases of osteonecrosis do not have a known cause, so prevention may not
be possible. In some cases, you can reduce your risk by doing the following:

      * Avoid drinking excessive amounts of alcohol. 
      * When possible, avoid high doses and long-term use of corticosteroids.
      * Follow safety measures when diving to avoid decompression sickness.

## Alternative Names

Avascular necrosis; Bone infarction; Ischemic bone necrosis; AVN; Aseptic
necrosis

## Images

      * ![Aseptic necrosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/21730t.jpg)Aseptic necrosis

## References

McAlindon T, Ward RJ. Osteonecrosis. In: Hochberg MC, Gravallese EM, Silman
AJ, Smolen JS, Weinblatt ME, Weisman MH, eds. _Rheumatology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 206.

Whyte MP. Osteonecrosis, osteosclerosis/hyperostosis, and other disorders of
the bone. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 248.

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Osteonecrosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Osteonecrosis_thumb.jpg)Osteonecrosis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

