Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002448.htm    
                                Description: If your child is under 1 year old, you should not feed your baby cow    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cow's milk - infants

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002448.htm

# Cow's milk - infants

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If your child is under 1 year old, you should not feed your baby cow's milk,
according to the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP).

Cow's milk does not provide enough:

      * Vitamin E
      * Iron
      * Essential fatty acids

Your baby's system cannot handle the high levels of these nutrients in cow's
milk:

      * Protein
      * Sodium
      * Potassium

It is also hard for your baby to digest the protein and fat in cow's milk.

To provide the best diet and nutrition for your infant, the AAP recommends:

      * If possible, you should feed your baby breast milk for at least the first 6 months of life.
      * You should give your baby only breast milk or iron-fortified formula during the first 12 months of life, not cow's milk.
      * Starting at age 6 months, you may add solid foods to your baby's diet.

If breastfeeding is not possible, infant formulas provide a healthy diet for
your infant.

Whether you use breast milk or formula, your baby may have colic and be fussy.
These are common problems in all babies. Cow's milk formulas usually do not
cause these symptoms, so it may not help if you switch to a different formula.
If your baby has ongoing colic, talk with your health care provider.

## References

American Academy of Pediatrics, Section on Breastfeeding; Johnston M, Landers
S, Noble L, Szucs K, Viehmann L. Breastfeeding and the use of human milk.
_Pediatrics_. 2012;129(3):e827-e841. PMID: 22371471
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22371471.

Lawrence RA, Lawrence RM. Benefits of breastfeeding for infants/making an
informed decision. In: Lawrence RA, Lawrence RM, eds. _Breastfeeding: A Guide
for the Medical Profession_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 7.

Parks EP, Shaikhkhalil A, Sainath NN, Mitchell JA, Brownell JN, Stallings VA.
Feeding healthy infants, children, and adolescents. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme
JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 56.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Infant and Newborn
Nutrition](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfantandNewbornNutrition_thumb.jpg)Infant
and Newborn Nutrition _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

