Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000805.htm    
                                Description: The least expensive way to feed your baby is to breastfeed. There are many other breastfeeding benefits, too. But not all moms can breastfeed. Some moms feed their baby both breast milk and formula. Others    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

How to save money on infant formula

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000805.htm

# How to save money on infant formula

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The least expensive way to feed your baby is to breastfeed. There are many
other breastfeeding benefits, too. But not all moms can breastfeed. Some moms
feed their baby both breast milk and formula. Others switch to formula after
breastfeeding for several months. Here are some ways you can save money on
infant formula.

## Money-Saving Ideas

Here are a few ways to save money on infant formula:

      * DO NOT buy just one type of baby bottle at first. Try a few different types to see which kind your baby likes and will use.
      * Buy powdered formula. It is much less expensive than ready-to-use and liquid concentrate.
      * Use cow's milk formula, unless your pediatrician says you shouldn't. Cow's milk formula is often less expensive than soy formula.
      * Buy in bulk, you will save money. But first try the brand to make sure your baby likes it and can digest it.
      * Comparison shop. Check to see which store is offering a deal or the lowest price.
      * Save formula coupons and free samples, even if you plan to breastfeed. You may decide to supplement with formula a few months from now, and those coupons will save you money.
      * Sign up for newsletters, special programs, and deals on formula company websites. They often send out coupons and free samples.
      * Ask your pediatrician for samples.
      * Consider generic or store-brand formulas. By law, they must meet the same nutritional and quality standards as brand-name formulas.
      * Avoid using disposable bottles. You will have to use a different liner with each feeding, which costs more.
      * If your baby needs special formula because of allergies or other health issues, see if your insurance will help cover the cost. Not all health plans offer this coverage, but some do. 

## What NOT to Do

Here are a few things to avoid:

      * DO NOT make your own formula. There is no way to duplicate the same nutrition and quality at home. You could risk your baby's health.
      * DO NOT feed your baby straight cow's milk or other animal milk before they are at least 1 year old.
      * DO NOT reuse old plastic baby bottles. Reused or hand-me-down bottles may contain bisphenol-A (BPA). The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has banned the use of BPA in baby bottles due to safety concerns.
      * DO NOT switch brands of formula frequently. All formulas are slightly different and the baby may have digestive issues with one brand compared with another. Find one brand that works and stay with it if possible.

## References

American Academy of Pediatrics website. Formula buying tips.
www.healthychildren.org/English/ages-stages/baby/feeding-
nutrition/Pages/Formula-Buying-Tips.aspx. Updated August 7, 2018. Accessed May
29, 2019.

American Academy of Pediatrics website. Forms of baby formula: powder,
concentrate & ready-to-feed. www.healthychildren.org/English/ages-
stages/baby/feeding-nutrition/Pages/Formula-Form-and-Function-Powders-
Concentrates-and-Ready-to-Feed.aspx. Updated August 7, 2018. Accessed May 29,
2019.

American Academy of Pediatrics website. Nutrition.
www.healthychildren.org/English/ages-stages/baby/feeding-
nutrition/Pages/default.aspx. Accessed May 29, 2019.

Parks EP, Shaikhkhalil A, Sainath NN, Mitchell JA, Brownell JN, Stallings VA.
Feeding healthy infants, children, and adolescents. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme
JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 56.

## Review Date 5/17/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Infant and Newborn Nutrition

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

