Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003875.htm    
                                Description: Left heart ventricular angiography is a procedure to look at the left-sided heart chambers and the function of the left-sided valves. It is sometimes combined with coronary angiography.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Left heart ventricular angiography

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003875.htm

# Left heart ventricular angiography

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Left heart ventricular angiography is a procedure to look at the left-sided
heart chambers and the function of the left-sided valves. It is sometimes
combined with coronary angiography.

## How the Test is Performed

Before the test, you will be given medicine to help you relax. You will be
awake and able to follow instructions during the test.

An intravenous line is placed in your arm. The health care provider cleans and
numbs an area on your arm or groin. A cardiologist makes a small cut in the
area, and inserts a thin flexible tube (catheter) into an artery. Using x-rays
as a guide, the doctor carefully moves the thin tube (catheter) into your
heart.

When the tube is in place, dye is injected through it. The dye flows through
the blood vessels, making them easier to see. X-rays are taken as the dye
moves through the blood vessels. These x-ray pictures create a "movie" of the
left ventricle as it contracts rhythmically.

The procedure may last from one to several hours.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You will be told not to eat or drink for 6 to 8 hours before the test. The
procedure takes place in the hospital. Some people may need to stay in the
hospital the night before the test.

A provider will explain the procedure and its risks. You must sign a consent
form for the procedure.

## How the Test will Feel

You will feel a sting and burn when the local anesthetic is injected. You may
feel pressure when the catheter is inserted. Occasionally, a flushing
sensation or a feeling that you need to urinate occurs when the dye is
injected.

## Why the Test is Performed

Left heart angiography is performed to assess the blood flow through the left
side of the heart.

## Normal Results

A normal result shows normal blood flow through the left side of the heart.
Blood volumes and pressures are also normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

      * A hole in the heart (ventricular septal defect)
      * Abnormalities of the left heart valves
      * An aneurysm of the heart wall
      * Areas of the heart are not contracting normally
      * Blood flow problems on the left side of the heart
      * Heart-related blockages
      * Weakened pumping function of the left ventricle

Coronary angiography may be needed when blockage of the coronary arteries is
suspected.

## Risks

Risks associated with this procedure include:

      * Abnormal heartbeats (arrhythmias)
      * Allergic reaction to dye or sedating medicines
      * Artery or vein damage
      * Cardiac tamponade
      * Embolism from blood clots at the tip of the catheter
      * Heart failure due to the volume of the dye
      * Infection
      * Kidney failure from the dye
      * Low blood pressure
      * Heart attack
      * Hemorrhage
      * Stroke

## Considerations

Right heart catheterization may be combined with this procedure.

Left heart ventricular angiography has some risk because it is an invasive
procedure. Other imaging techniques may carry less risk, such as:

      * CT scans
      * Echocardiography
      * Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the heart
      * Radionuclide ventriculography

Your provider may decide to perform one of these procedures instead of left
heart ventricular angiography.

## Alternative Names

Angiography - left heart; Left ventriculography

## References

Hermann J. Cardiac catheterization. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL,
Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of
Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 19.

Patel MR, Bailey SR, Bonow RO, et al.
ACCF/SCAI/AATS/AHA/ASE/ASNC/HFSA/HRS/SCCM/SCCT/SCMR/STS 2012 appropriate use
criteria for diagnostic catheterization: a report of the American College of
Cardiology Foundation Appropriate Use Criteria Task Force, Society for
Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions, American Association for
Thoracic Surgery, American Heart Association, American Society of
Echocardiography, American Society of Nuclear Cardiology, Heart Failure
Society of America, Heart Rhythm Society, Society of Critical Care Medicine,
Society of Cardiovascular Computed Tomography, Society for Cardiovascular
Magnetic Resonance, and Society of Thoracic Surgeons. _J Am Coll Cardiol_.
2012;59(22):1995-2027. PMID: 22578925 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22578925.

Webb GD, Smallhorn JF, Therrien J, Redington AN. Congenital heart disease in
the adult and pediatric patient. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, et
al. eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 75.

## Review Date 9/24/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart Health
Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartHealthTest_thumb.jpg)Heart Health
Tests _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

