Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003419.htm    
                                Description: Cardiac catheterization involves passing a thin flexible tube (catheter) into the right or left side of the heart. The catheter is most often inserted from the groin or the arm.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cardiac catheterization

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003419.htm

# Cardiac catheterization

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cardiac catheterization involves passing a thin flexible tube (catheter) into
the right or left side of the heart. The catheter is most often inserted from
the groin or the arm.

## How the Test is Performed

You will get medicine before the test to help you relax.

The health care provider will clean a site on your arm, neck, or groin and
insert a line into one of your veins. This is called an intravenous (IV) line.

A larger thin plastic tube called a sheath is placed into a vein or artery in
your leg or arm. Then longer plastic tubes called catheters are carefully
moved up into the heart using live x-rays as a guide. Then the doctor can:

      * Collect blood samples from the heart
      * Measure pressure and blood flow in the heart's chambers and in the large arteries around the heart
      * Measure the oxygen in different parts of your heart
      * Examine the arteries of the heart
      * Perform a biopsy on the heart muscle

For some procedures, you may be injected with a dye that helps your provider
to visualize the structures and vessels within the heart.

If you have a blockage, you may have angioplasty and a stent placed during the
procedure.

![Balloon angioplasty - short
segment](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200037t.gif)Watch this
video about:Balloon angioplasty - short segment

The test may last 30 to 60 minutes. If you also need special procedures, the
test may take longer. If the catheter is placed in your groin, you will often
be asked to lie flat on your back for a few to several hours after the test to
avoid bleeding.

You will be told how to take care of yourself when you go home after the
procedure is done.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You should not eat or drink for 6 to 8 hours before the test. The test takes
place in a hospital and you will be asked to wear a hospital gown. Sometimes,
you will need to spend the night before the test in the hospital. Otherwise,
you will come to the hospital the morning of the procedure.

Your provider will explain the procedure and its risks. A witnessed, signed
consent form for the procedure is required.

Tell your provider if you:

      * Are allergic to seafood or any medicines
      * Have had a bad reaction to contrast dye or iodine in the past
      * Take any medicines, including Viagra or other drugs for erectile dysfunction
      * Might be pregnant 

## How the Test will Feel

The study is done by cardiologists and a trained health care team.

You will be awake and able to follow instructions during the test.

You may feel some discomfort or pressure where the catheter is placed. You may
have some discomfort from lying still during the test or from lying flat on
your back after the procedure.

## Why the Test is Performed

This procedure is most often done to get information about the heart or its
blood vessels. It may also be done to treat some types of heart conditions, or
to find out if you need heart surgery.

Your doctor may perform cardiac catheterization to diagnose or evaluate:

      * Causes of congestive heart failure or cardiomyopathy
      * Coronary artery disease
      * Heart defects that are present at birth (congenital)
      * High blood pressure in the lungs (pulmonary hypertension)
      * Problems with the heart valves 

The following procedures may also be done using cardiac catheterization:

      * Repair certain types of heart defects
      * Open a narrowed (stenotic) heart valve
      * Open blocked arteries or grafts in the heart (angioplasty with or without stenting) 

## Risks

Cardiac catheterization carries a slightly higher risk than other heart tests.
However, it is very safe when done by an experienced team.

The risks include:

      * Cardiac tamponade
      * Heart attack
      * Injury to a coronary artery
      * Irregular heartbeat
      * Low blood pressure
      * Reaction to the contrast dye
      * Stroke

Possible complications of any type of catheterization include the following:

      * Bleeding, infection, and pain at the IV or sheath insertion site
      * Damage to the blood vessels
      * Blood clots
      * Kidney damage due to the contrast dye (more common in people with diabetes or kidney problems) 

## Alternative Names

Catheterization - cardiac; Heart catheterization; Angina - cardiac
catheterization; CAD - cardiac catheterization; Coronary artery disease -
cardiac catheterization; Heart valve - cardiac catheterization; Heart failure
- cardiac catheterization

## Images

      * ![Cardiac catheterization](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1080t.jpg)Cardiac catheterization
      * ![Cardiac catheterization](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9156t.jpg)Cardiac catheterization

## References

Benjamin IJ. Diagnostic tests and procedures in the patient with
cardiovascular disease. In: Benjamin IJ, Griggs RC, Wing EJ, Fitz JG, eds.
_Andreoli and Carpenter's Cecil Essentials of Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 4.

Herrmann, J. Cardiac catheterization. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann
DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of
Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 19.

Kern M. Catheterization and angiography. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 57.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart Health
Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartHealthTest_thumb.jpg)Heart Health
Tests _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

