Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003391.htm    
                                Description: His bundle electrography is a test that measures electrical activity in a part of the heart that carries the signals that control the time between heartbeats (contractions).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

His bundle electrography

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003391.htm

# His bundle electrography

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

His bundle electrography is a test that measures electrical activity in a part
of the heart that carries the signals that control the time between heartbeats
(contractions).

## How the Test is Performed

The bundle of His is a group of fibers that carry electrical impulses through
the center of the heart. If these signals are blocked, you will have problems
with your heartbeat.

![Cardiac conduction
system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200080t.gif)Watch this video
about:Cardiac conduction system

The His bundle electrography is part of an electrophysiology (EP) study. An
intravenous catheter (IV line) is inserted into your arm so that you can be
given medicines during the test.

Electrocardiogram (ECG) leads are placed on your arms and legs. Your arm,
neck, or groin will be cleaned and numbed with a local anesthetic. After the
area is numb, the cardiologist makes a small cut in a vein and inserts a thin
tube called a catheter inside.

The catheter is carefully moved through the vein up into the heart. An x-ray
method called fluoroscopy helps guide the doctor to the right place. During
the test, you are watched for any abnormal heartbeats (arrhythmias). The
catheter has a sensor on the end, which is used to measure the electrical
activity of the bundle of His.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You will be told not to eat or drink anything for 6 to 8 hours before the
test. The test will be done in a hospital. Some people may need to check into
the hospital the night before the test. Otherwise, you will check in the
morning of the test. Although the test may take some time, most people DO NOT
need to stay in the hospital overnight.

Your health care provider will explain the procedure and its risks. You must
sign a consent form before the test starts.

About half an hour before the procedure, you will be given a mild sedative to
help you relax. You will wear a hospital gown. The procedure may last from 1
to several hours.

## How the Test will Feel

You are awake during the test. You may feel some discomfort when the IV is
placed into your arm, and some pressure at the site when the catheter is
inserted.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test may be done to:

      * Determine if you need a pacemaker or other treatment
      * Diagnose arrhythmias 
      * Find the specific location where electrical signals through the heart are blocked

## Normal Results

The time it takes for the electrical signals to travel through the bundle of
His is normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A pacemaker will be needed if the test results are abnormal.

Abnormal results may mean you have or had:

      * Chronic conduction system disease
      * Carotid sinus pressure
      * Recent heart attack
      * Atrial disease

## Risks

Risks of the procedure include:

      * Arrhythmias
      * Cardiac tamponade
      * Embolism from blood clots at the tip of the catheter 
      * Heart attack 
      * Hemorrhage
      * Infection
      * Injury to the vein or artery
      * Low blood pressure
      * Stroke

## Alternative Names

His bundle electrogram; HBE; His bundle recording; Electrogram - His bundle;
Arrhythmia - His; Heart block - His

## Images

      * ![ECG](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1135t.jpg)ECG

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. H. In Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests
and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2013:chap H;602-667.

Miller JM, Tomaselli GF, Zipes DP. Diagnosis of cardiac arrhythmias. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018:chap 35.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart Health
Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartHealthTest_thumb.jpg)Heart Health
Tests _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

