Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003874.htm    
                                Description: Right heart ventricular angiography is a study that images the right chambers (atrium and ventricle) of the heart.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Right heart ventricular angiography

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003874.htm

# Right heart ventricular angiography

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Right heart ventricular angiography is a study that images the right chambers
(atrium and ventricle) of the heart.

## How the Test is Performed

You will get a mild sedative 30 minutes before the procedure. A cardiologist
will cleanse the site and numb the area with a local anesthetic. Then a
catheter will be inserted into a vein in your neck, arm, or groin.

The catheter will be moved into the right side of the heart. As the catheter
is advanced, the doctor can record pressures from the right atrium and right
ventricle.

Contrast material ("dye") is injected into the right side of the heart. It
helps the cardiologist determine the size and shape of the heart's chambers
and evaluate their function as well as the function of the tricuspid and
pulmonary valves.

The procedure will last from 1 to several hours.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You will not be allowed to eat or drink for 6 to 8 hours before the test. The
procedure takes place in the hospital. Generally, you will be admitted the
morning of the procedure. However, you may need to be admitted the night
before.

A health care provider will explain the procedure and its risks. You must sign
a consent form.

## How the Test will Feel

You will be given local anesthesia where the catheter is inserted. Afterward,
the only thing you should feel is pressure at the site. You will not feel the
catheter as it is moved through your veins into the right side of the heart.
You may feel a flushing sensation or the feeling that you need to urinate as
the dye is injected.

## Why the Test is Performed

Right heart angiography is performed to assess the blood flow through the
right side of the heart.

## Normal Results

Normal results include:

      * Cardiac index is 2.8 to 4.2 liters per minute per square meter (of body surface area)
      * Pulmonary artery systolic pressure is 17 to 32 millimeters of mercury (mm Hg)
      * Pulmonary artery mean pressure is 9 to 19 mm Hg
      * Pulmonary diastolic pressure is 4 to 13 mm Hg
      * Pulmonary capillary wedge pressure is 4 to 12 mm Hg
      * Right atrial pressure is 0 to 7 mm Hg

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

      * Abnormal connections between the right and left side of the heart
      * Abnormalities of the right atrium, such as atrial myxoma (rarely)
      * Abnormalities of the valves on the right side of the heart
      * Abnormal pressures or volumes, particularly lung problems
      * Weakened pumping function of the right ventricle (this could be due to many causes) 

## Risks

Risks of this procedure include:

      * Cardiac arrhythmias
      * Cardiac tamponade
      * Embolism from blood clots at the tip of the catheter
      * Heart attack
      * Hemorrhage
      * Infection
      * Kidney damage
      * Low blood pressure
      * Reaction to contrast dye or sedating medicines
      * Stroke
      * Trauma to the vein or artery 

## Considerations

This test may be combined with coronary angiography and left heart
catheterization.

## Alternative Names

Angiography - right heart; Right heart ventriculography

## Images

      * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
      * ![Heart - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view

## References

Arshi A, Sanchez C, Yakubov S. Valvular heart disease. In: Kellerman RD, Rakel
DP, eds. _Conn's Current Therapy 2019_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:156-161.

Herrmann J. Cardiac catheterization. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL,
Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of
Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 19.

Patel MR, Bailey SR, Bonow RO, et al.
ACCF/SCAI/AATS/AHA/ASE/ASNC/HFSA/HRS/SCCM/SCCT/SCMR/STS 2012 appropriate use
criteria for diagnostic catheterization: a report of the American College of
Cardiology Foundation Appropriate Use Criteria Task Force, Society for
Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions, American Association for
Thoracic Surgery, American Heart Association, American Society of
Echocardiography, American Society of Nuclear Cardiology, Heart Failure
Society of America, Heart Rhythm Society, Society of Critical Care Medicine,
Society of Cardiovascular Computed Tomography, Society for Cardiovascular
Magnetic Resonance, and Society of Thoracic Surgeons. _J Am Coll Cardiol_.
2012;59(22):1995-2027. PMID: 22578925 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22578925.

Udelson JE, Dilsizian V, Bonow RO. Nuclear cardiology. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 16.

## Review Date 9/24/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Heart Health
Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartHealthTest_thumb.jpg)Heart Health
Tests _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

