Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000249.htm    
                                Description: Crohn disease is a disease where parts of the digestive tract become inflamed.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Crohn disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000249.htm

# Crohn disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Crohn disease is a disease where parts of the digestive tract become inflamed.

      * It most often involves the lower end of the small intestine and the beginning of the large intestine.
      * It may also occur in any part of the digestive system from the mouth to the end of the rectum (anus). 

Crohn disease is a form of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).

Ulcerative colitis is a related condition.

![Inflammatory bowel
disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19219.jpg)

## Causes

The exact cause of Crohn disease is unknown. It occurs when your body's immune
system mistakenly attacks and destroys healthy body tissue (autoimmune
disorder).

When parts of the digestive tract remain swollen or inflamed, the walls of the
intestines become thickened.

Factors that may play a role in Crohn disease include:

      * Your genes and family history. (People who are white or of Eastern European Jewish descent are at a higher risk.)
      * Environmental factors.
      * Tendency of your body to over-react to normal bacteria in the intestines.
      * Smoking.

Crohn disease may occur at any age. It mostly occurs in people between ages 15
and 35.

## Symptoms

Symptoms depend on the part of the digestive tract involved. Symptoms range
from mild to severe, and can come and go, with periods of flare-ups.

The main symptoms of Crohn disease are:

      * Crampy pain in the abdomen (belly area).
      * Fever.
      * Fatigue.
      * Loss of appetite and weight loss.
      * Feeling that you need to pass stools, even though your bowels are already empty. It may involve straining, pain, and cramping.
      * Watery diarrhea, which may be bloody. 

Other symptoms may include:

      * Constipation
      * Sores or swelling in the eyes
      * Draining of pus, mucus, or stools from around the rectum or anus (caused by something called a fistula)
      * Joint pain and swelling
      * Mouth ulcers
      * Rectal bleeding and bloody stools
      * Swollen gums
      * Tender, red bumps (nodules) under the skin, which may turn into skin ulcers 
![Anorectal fistulas](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19291.jpg)

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam may show a mass or tenderness in the abdomen, skin rash,
swollen joints, or mouth ulcers.

Tests to diagnose Crohn disease include:

      * Barium enema or upper GIÂ (gastrointestinal) series
      * Colonoscopy or sigmoidoscopy
      * CT scan of the abdomen
      * Capsule endoscopy
      * MRI of the abdomen
      * Enteroscopy
      * MR enterography

A stool culture may be done to rule out other possible causes of the symptoms.

This disease may also alter the results of the following tests:

      * Low albumin level
      * High sed rate
      * Elevated CRP  

      * Fecal fat
      * Low blood count (hemoglobin and hematocrit)
      * Abnormal liver blood tests
      * High white blood cell count 
      * Elevated fecal calprotectin level in stool

## Treatment

Tips for managing Crohn disease at home:

DIET AND NUTRITION

You should eat a well-balanced, healthy diet. Include enough calories,
protein, and nutrients from a variety of food groups.

No specific diet has been shown to make Crohn symptoms better or worse. Types
of food problems may vary from person to person.

Some foods can make diarrhea and gas worse. To help ease symptoms, try:

      * Eating small amounts of food throughout the day.
      * Drinking lots of water (drink small amounts often throughout the day).
      * Avoiding high-fiber foods (bran, beans, nuts, seeds, and popcorn).
      * Avoiding fatty, greasy or fried foods and sauces (butter, margarine, and heavy cream).
      * Limiting dairy products if you have problems digesting dairy fats. Try low-lactose cheeses, such as Swiss and cheddar, and an enzyme product, such as Lactaid, to help break down lactose.
      * Avoiding foods that you know cause gas, such as beans and vegetables in the cabbage family, such as broccoli.
      * Avoiding spicy foods. 

Ask your health care provider about extra vitamins and minerals you may need,
such as:

      * Iron supplements (if you are anemic).
      * Calcium and vitamin D supplements to help keep your bones strong.
      * Vitamin B12 to prevent anemia, especially if you have had the end of the small (ileum) removed. 

If you have an ileostomy, you will need to learn:

      * Diet changes
      * How to change your pouch
      * How to care for your stoma

STRESS

You may feel worried, embarrassed, or even sad and depressed about having a
bowel disease. Other stressful events in your life, such as moving, a job
loss, or the loss of a loved one can worsen digestive problems.

Ask your provider for tips on how to manage your stress.

MEDICINES

You can take medicine to treat very bad diarrhea. Loperamide (Imodium) can be
bought without a prescription. Always talk to your provider before using these
drugs.

Other medicines to help with symptoms include:

      * Fiber supplements, such as psyllium powder (Metamucil) or methylcellulose (Citrucel). Ask your provider before taking these products or laxatives.
      * Acetaminophen (Tylenol) for mild pain. Avoid drugs such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), or naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn) which can make your symptoms worse. 

Your provider may also prescribe medicines to help control Crohn disease:

      * Aminosalicylates (5-ASAs), medicines that help control mild to moderate symptoms. Some forms of the drug are taken by mouth, and others must be given rectally.
      * Corticosteroids, such as prednisone, treat moderate to severe Crohn disease. They may be taken by mouth or inserted into the rectum.
      * Medicines that quiet the immune system's reaction.
      * Antibiotics to treat abscesses or fistulas.
      * Immunosuppressive drugs such as Imuran, 6-MP, and others to avoid long-term use of corticosteroids.
      * Biologic therapy may be used for severe Crohn disease that does not respond to any other types of medicines. 

SURGERY

Some people with Crohn disease may need surgery to remove a damaged or
diseased part of the intestine. In some cases, the entire large intestine is
removed, with or without the rectum.

People who have Crohn disease that does not respond to medicines may need
surgery to treat problems such as:

      * Bleeding
      * Failure to grow (in children)
      * Fistulas (abnormal connections between the intestines and another area of the body)
      * Infections
      * Narrowing of the intestine 

Surgeries that may be done include:

      * Ileostomy
      * Removal of part of the large bowel or small bowel
      * Removal of the large intestine to the rectum
      * Removal of the large intestine and most of rectum

## Support Groups

The Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of America offers support groups all over
the United States -- www.crohnscolitisfoundation.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

There is no cure for Crohn disease. The condition is marked by periods of
improvement followed by flare-ups of symptoms. Crohn disease cannot be cured,
even with surgery. But the surgical treatment can offer major help.

## Possible Complications

You have more risk for small bowel and colon cancer if you have Crohn disease.
Your provider may suggest tests to screen for colon cancer. A colonoscopy is
often recommended if you have had Crohn disease involving the colon for 8 or
more years.

Those with more severe Crohn disease may have these problems:

      * Abscess or infection in the intestines
      * Anemia, a lack of red blood cells
      * Bowel blockage
      * Fistulas in the bladder, skin, or vagina
      * Slow growth and sexual development in children
      * Swelling of the joints
      * Lack of important nutrients, such as vitamin B12 and iron
      * Problems with maintaining a healthy weight
      * Swelling of the bile ducts (primary sclerosing cholangitis)
      * Skin lesions, such as pyoderma gangrenosum 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you:

      * Have very bad abdominal pain
      * Cannot control your diarrhea with diet changes and drugs
      * Have lost weight, or a child is not gaining weight
      * Have rectal bleeding, drainage, or sores
      * Have a fever that lasts for more than 2 or 3 days, or a fever higher than 100.4Â°F (38Â°C) without an illness
      * Have nausea and vomiting that lasts for more than a day
      * Have skin sores that do not heal
      * Have joint pain that prevents you from doing your everyday activities
      * Have side effects from medicines you are taking for your condition

## Alternative Names

Crohn's disease; Inflammatory bowel disease - Crohn disease; Regional
enteritis; Ileitis; Granulomatous ileocolitis; IBD - Crohn disease

## Patient Instructions

      * Bland diet
      * Constipation - what to ask your doctor
      * Crohn disease - discharge
      * Diarrhea - what to ask your health care provider - adult
      * Ileostomy and your child
      * Ileostomy and your diet
      * Ileostomy - caring for your stoma
      * Ileostomy - changing your pouch
      * Ileostomy - discharge
      * Ileostomy - what to ask your doctor 
      * Large bowel resection - discharge
      * Living with your ileostomy
      * Low-fiber diet
      * Small bowel resection - discharge
      * Types of ileostomy

## Images

      * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
      * ![Crohn disease - X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1158t.jpg)Crohn disease - X-ray
      * ![Inflammatory bowel disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19219t.jpg)Inflammatory bowel disease
      * ![Anorectal fistulas](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19291t.jpg)Anorectal fistulas
      * ![Crohn disease - affected areas](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19293t.jpg)Crohn disease - affected areas
      * ![Ulcerative colitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19308t.jpg)Ulcerative colitis
      * ![Inflammatory bowel disease - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/16288t.jpg)Inflammatory bowel disease - series

## References

Le Leannec IC, Wick E. Management of Crohn's colitis. In: Cameron AM, Cameron
JL, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:185-189.

Lichtenstein GR. Inflammatory bowel disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 132.

Lichtenstein GR, Loftus EV, Isaacs KL, Regueiro MD, Gerson LB, Sands BE. ACG
Clinical Guideline: Management of Crohn's disease in adults. _Am J
Gastroenterol_. 2018;113(4):481-517. PMID: 29610508
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29610508.

Mahmoud NN, Bleier JIS, Aarons CB, Paulson EC, Shanmugan S, Fry RD. Colon and
rectum. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston
Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 51.

Sandborn WJ. Crohn's disease evaluation and treatment: clinical decision tool.
_Gastroenterology_. 2014;147(3):702-705. PMID: 25046160
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25046160.

Sands BE, Siegel CA. Crohn's disease. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ,
eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 115.

## Review Date 1/9/2020

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Crohn's
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Crohn'sDisease_thumb.jpg)Crohn's
Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

