Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000194.htm    
                                Description: Crohn disease is a disease where parts of the digestive tract become inflamed. It is a form of inflammatory bowel disease.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Crohn disease - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000194.htm

# Crohn disease - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Crohn disease is a disease where parts of the digestive tract become inflamed.
It is a form of inflammatory bowel disease.

## When You're in the Hospital

You were in the hospital because you have Crohn disease. This is an
inflammation of the surface and deep layers of the small intestine, large
intestine, or both.

You may have had exams, lab test, and x-rays. The inside of your rectum and
colon may have been examined using a flexible tube (colonoscopy). A sample of
your tissue (biopsy) may have been taken.

You may have been asked not to eat or drink anything and have been fed only
through an intravenous line. You may have received special nutrients through a
feeding tube.

You may have also started taking new medicines to treat your Crohn disease.

Surgeries you may have had include repair of a fistula, small bowel resection,
or ileostomy.

## What to Expect at Home

After a flare-up of your Crohn disease, you may be more tired and have less
energy than before. This should get better. Ask your health care provider
about any side effects from your new medicines. You should see your provider
regularly. You may also need frequent blood tests, especially if you are on
new medicines.

If you went home with a feeding tube, you will need to learn how to use and
clean the tube and your skin where the tube enters your body.

## Diet

When you first go home, you may be asked to drink only liquids or eat
different foods from what you normally eat. Ask your provider when you can
start your regular diet.

You should eat a well-balanced, healthy diet. It is important that you get
enough calories, protein, and important nutrients from a variety of food
groups.

Certain foods and drinks can make your symptoms worse. These foods may cause
problems for you all the time or only during a flare-up. Try to avoid foods
that make your symptoms worse.

      * If your body does not digest dairy foods well, limit dairy products. Try low-lactose cheeses, such as Swiss and cheddar, or an enzyme product, such as Lactaid, to help break down lactose. If you must stop eating dairy products, talk with a dietitian about getting enough calcium. Some experts believe that you should avoid dairy products altogether until you are tolerating your regular diet.
      * Too much fiber may make your symptoms worse. Try baking or stewing fruits and vegetables if eating them raw bothers you. Eat low-fiber foods if that does not help enough.
      * Avoid foods that are known to cause gas, such as beans, spicy food, cabbage, broccoli, cauliflower, raw fruit juices, and fruits, especially citrus fruits.
      * Avoid or limit alcohol and caffeine. They may make your diarrhea worse. 

Eat smaller meals, and eat more often. Drink plenty of liquids.

Ask your provider about extra vitamins and minerals you may need:

      * Iron supplements (if you have iron deficiency anemia)
      * Nutritional supplements
      * Calcium and vitamin D supplements to help keep your bones strong
      * Vitamin B-12 shots, to prevent anemia. 

Talk with a dietitian, especially if you lose weight or your diet becomes very
limited.

## Stress

You may feel worried about having a bowel accident, embarrassed, or even feel
sad or depressed. Other stressful events in your life, such as moving, job
loss, or the loss of a loved one, can cause problems with your digestion.

These tips help you to manage your Crohn disease:

      * Join a support group. Ask your provider about groups in your area.
      * Exercise. Talk with your provider about an exercise plan that is right for you.
      * Try biofeedback to reduce muscle tension and slow your heart rate, deep breathing exercises, hypnosis, or other ways to relax. Examples include doing yoga, listening to music, reading, or soaking in a warm bath.
      * See a mental health professional for help if necessary.

## Drug Treatment

Your provider may give you some drugs to help relieve your symptoms. Based on
how bad your Crohn disease is and how you respond to treatment, your provider
may recommend one or more of these drugs:

      * Anti-diarrhea drugs can help when you have very bad diarrhea. Loperamide (Imodium) can be bought without a prescription. Always talk to your provider before using these drugs.
      * Fiber supplements may help your symptoms. You can buy psyllium powder (Metamucil) or methylcellulose (Citrucel) without a prescription. Ask your provider about these.
      * Always talk to your provider before using any laxative medicines.
      * You may use acetaminophen (Tylenol) for mild pain. Drugs such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), or naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn) may make your symptoms worse. Talk to your provider about medicines you can use. You may need a prescription for stronger pain medicines. 

There are many types of drugs that can help prevent or treat attacks of your
Crohn disease.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have:

      * Cramps or pain in your lower stomach area
      * Bloody diarrhea, often with mucus or pus
      * Diarrhea that cannot be controlled with diet changes and drugs
      * Weight loss (in everyone) and failure to gain weight (in children)
      * Rectal bleeding, drainage, or sores
      * Fever that lasts more than 2 or 3 days, or a fever higher than 100.4Â°F (38Â°C) without an explanation
      * Nausea and vomiting that lasts more than a day
      * Skin sores or lesions that do not heal
      * Joint pain that keeps you from doing your everyday activities
      * Side effects from any drugs prescribed for your condition 

## Alternative Names

Inflammatory bowel disease - Crohn's disease - discharge; Regional enteritis -
discharge; Ileitis - discharge; Granulomatous ileocolitis - discharge; Colitis
- discharge

## Images

      * ![Inflammatory bowel disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19219t.jpg)Inflammatory bowel disease

## References

Sandborn WJ. Crohn's disease evaluation and treatment: clinical decision tool.
_Gastroenterology_. 2014;147(3):702-705. PMID: 25046160
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25046160.

Sands BE, Siegel CA. Crohn's disease. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ,
eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 115.

Swaroop PP. Inflammatory bowel disease: Crohn disease and ulcerative colitis.
In: Kellerman RD, Rakel DP, eds. _Conn's Current Therapy 2019_. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:224-230.

## Read More

      * Crohn disease
      * Ileostomy
      * Small bowel resection

## Patient Instructions

      * Diarrhea - what to ask your doctor - child 
      * Diarrhea - what to ask your health care provider - adult
      * Enteral nutrition - child - managing problems
      * Gastrostomy feeding tube - bolus
      * Ileostomy and your child
      * Ileostomy and your diet
      * Ileostomy - caring for your stoma
      * Ileostomy - discharge
      * Jejunostomy feeding tube 
      * Living with your ileostomy
      * Low-fiber diet
      * Nasogastric feeding tube 
      * Small bowel resection - discharge

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Crohn's Disease

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

