Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007448.htm    
                                Description: Physical medicine and rehabilitation is a medical specialty that helps people regain body functions they lost due to medical conditions or injury. This term is often used to describe the whole medical    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Physical medicine and rehabilitation

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007448.htm

# Physical medicine and rehabilitation

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Physical medicine and rehabilitation is a medical specialty that helps people
regain body functions they lost due to medical conditions or injury. This term
is often used to describe the whole medical team, not just the doctors.

Rehabilitation can help many body functions, including bowel and bladder
problems, chewing and swallowing, problems thinking or reasoning, movement or
mobility, speech, and language.

## Information

Many injuries or medical conditions can affect your ability to function:

      * Brain disorders, such as stroke, multiple sclerosis, or cerebral palsy
      * Long-term (chronic) pain, including back and neck pain
      * Major bone or joint surgery, severe burns, or limb amputation
      * Severe arthritis becoming worse over time
      * Severe weakness after recovering from a serious illness (such as infection, heart failure or respiratory failure)
      * Spinal cord injury or brain injury 

Children may need rehabilitation services for:

      * Down syndrome or other genetic disorders
      * Intellectual disability
      * Muscular dystrophy or other neuromuscular disorders
      * Sensory deprivation disorder, autism spectrum disorderÂ or developmental disorders
      * Speech disorders and language problems 

Physical medicine and rehabilitation services also include sports medicine and
injury prevention.

WHERE REHABILITATION IS DONE

People can have rehabilitation in many settings. It will often begin while
they are still in the hospital, recovering from an illness or injury.
Sometimes it begins before someone has planned surgery.

After the person leaves the hospital, treatment may continue at a special
inpatient rehabilitation center. A person may be transferred to this type of
center if they have significant orthopedic problems, burns, a spinal cord
injury or severe brain injury from stroke or trauma.

Rehabilitation often also takes place in a skilled nursing facility or
rehabilitation center outside of a hospital.

Many people who are recovering eventually go home. Therapy is then continued
at the provider's office or in another setting. You may visit the office of
your physical medicine physician and other health professionals. Sometimes, a
therapist will make home visits. Family members or other caregivers must also
be available to help.

WHAT REHABILITATION DOES

The goal of rehabilitation therapy is to teach people how to take care of
themselves as much as possible. The focus is often on daily tasks such as
eating, bathing, using the bathroom and moving from a wheelchair to a bed.

Sometimes, the goal is more challenging, such as restoring full function to
one or more parts of the body.

Rehabilitation experts use many tests to evaluate a person's problems and
monitor their recovery.

A full rehabilitation program and treatment plan may be needed to help with
medical, physical, social, emotional, and work-related problems, including:

      * Therapy for specific medical problems
      * Advice about setting up their home to maximize their function and safety
      * Help with wheelchairs, splints and other medical equipment
      * Help with financial and social issues 

Family and caregivers may also need help adjusting to their loved one's
condition and knowing where to find resources in the community.

THE REHABILITATION TEAM

Physical medicine and rehabilitation is a team approach. Team members are
doctors, other health professionals, the patient, and their family or
caregivers.

Physical medicine and rehabilitation doctors receive 4 or more extra years of
training in this type of care after they have finished medical school. They
are also called physiatrists.

Other types of doctors that may be members of a rehabilitation team include
neurologists, orthopedic surgeons, psychiatrists and primary care doctors.

Other health professionals include occupational therapists, physical
therapists, speech and language therapists, social workers, vocational
counselors, nurses, psychologists, and dietitians (nutritionists).

## Alternative Names

Rehabilitation; Physical rehab; Physiatry

## References

Cifu DX, ed. _Braddom's Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016.

Frontera WR, Silver JK, Rizzo TD, eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation: Musculoskeletal Disorders, Pain, and Rehabilitation_. 3rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015.

## Review Date 10/23/2017

Updated by: Andrew W. Piasecki, MD, Camden Bone and Joint, LLC, Orthopaedic
Surgery/Sports Medicine, Camden, SC. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Rehabilitation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Rehabilitation_thumb.jpg)Rehabilitation
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

