Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001537.htm    
                                Description: Oppositional defiant disorder is a pattern of disobedient, hostile, and defiant behavior toward authority figures.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Oppositional defiant disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001537.htm

# Oppositional defiant disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Oppositional defiant disorder is a pattern of disobedient, hostile, and
defiant behavior toward authority figures.

## Causes

This disorder is more common in boys than in girls. Some studies have shown
that it affects 20% of school-age children. However, most experts believe this
figure is high due to changing definitions of normal childhood behavior. It
may also possibly have racial, cultural, and gender biases.

This behavior typically starts by age 8. However, it may start as early as the
preschool years. This disorder is thought to be caused by a combination of
biological, psychological, and social factors.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Actively does not follow adults' requests
      * Angry and resentful of others
      * Argues with adults
      * Blames others for own mistakes
      * Has few or no friends or has lost friends
      * Is in constant trouble in school
      * Loses temper
      * Is spiteful or seeks revenge
      * Is touchy or easily annoyed

To fit this diagnosis, the pattern must last for at least 6 months and must be
more than normal childhood misbehavior.

The pattern of behaviors must be different from those of other children around
the same age and developmental level. The behavior must lead to significant
problems in school or social activities.

## Exams and Tests

Children with symptoms of this disorder should be evaluated by a psychiatrist
or psychologist. In children and adolescents, the following conditions can
cause similar behavior problems and should be considered as possibilities:

      * Anxiety disorders
      * Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
      * Bipolar disorder
      * Depression
      * Learning disorders
      * Substance abuse disorders 

## Treatment

The best treatment for the child is to talk with a mental health professional
in individual and possibly family therapy. The parents should also learn how
to manage the child's behavior.

Medicines may also be helpful, especially if the behaviors occur as part of
another condition (such as depression, childhood psychosis, or ADHD).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Some children respond well to treatment, while others do not.

## Possible Complications

In many cases, children with oppositional defiant disorder grow up to have
conduct disorder as teenagers or adults. In some cases, children may grow up
to have antisocial personality disorder.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have concerns about your child's
development or behavior.

## Prevention

Be consistent about rules and consequences at home. Don't make punishments too
harsh or inconsistent.

Model the right behaviors for your child. Abuse and neglect increase the
chances that this condition will occur.

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Disruptive, impulse-control, and conduct
disorders. In: American Psychiatric Association. _Diagnostic and Statistical
Manual of Mental Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric
Publishing. 2013:461-480.

Moser SE, Netson KL. Behavioral problems in children and adolescents. In:
Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 23.

Walter HJ, Rashid A, Moseley LR, DeMaso DR. Disruptive, impulse-control, and
conduct disorders. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds.
_Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 29.

## Review Date 3/26/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Child Behavior
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildBehaviorDisorders_thumb.jpg)Child
Behavior Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

