Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002211.htm    
                                Description: All children misbehave sometimes. As a parent, you have to decide how you will respond. Your child needs rules to understand how to behave.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Discipline in children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002211.htm

# Discipline in children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

All children misbehave sometimes. As a parent, you have to decide how you will
respond. Your child needs rules to understand how to behave.

Discipline involves both punishment and rewards. When you discipline your
children, you are teaching them what is good behavior and what is not good
behavior. Discipline is important to:

      * Protect children from harm
      * Teach self-discipline
      * Develop good social skills 

## Information

Every parent has their own parenting style. You may be strict or you may be
laid back. The key is to:

      * Set clear expectations
      * Be consistent
      * Be loving

TIPS FOR EFFECTIVE DISCIPLINE

Try these parenting pointers:

 **Reward good behavior.** As much as you can, try to focus on the positive.
Let your children know that you are pleased when they are behaving the way you
wish. By showing your approval, you encourage good behavior and help build
self-esteem.

 **Let natural consequences teach your child.** While it is not easy, you
should not always prevent bad things from happening. If your child is
frustrated with a toy and breaks it, let him learn that he no longer has that
toy to play with.

 **Consider your child's age when setting limits or punishing.** DO NOT expect
more from your child than your child can do. For example, a toddler cannot
control the impulse to touch things. Instead of trying to tell her not to
touch, put fragile objects out of reach. If you use time outs, put your
children in time out for 1 minute per each year of age. For example, put your
4-year-old into time out for 4 minutes.

 **Be clear.** Let your child know ahead of time what you will be doing for
discipline. DO NOT make it up in the heat of the moment. Tell your child what
behavior needs to change and what you will do if it does not.

Tell your child exactly what you expect from him. Rather than saying, "Your
room is messy," tell the child what needs to be picked up or cleaned. For
example, tell your child to put the toys away and make the bed. Explain what
the punishment will be if he does not take care of his room.

 **DO NOT argue.** Once you have set expectations, do not get dragged into an
argument about what's fair. DO NOT keep defending yourself once you have
stated what you want. Remind your child about the rules you have set and leave
it at that.

 **Be consistent**. DO NOT change rules or punishments at random. If more than
one adult is disciplining the child, work together. It is confusing to your
child when one caregiver accepts certain behaviors but the other caregiver
punishes for the same behavior. Your child may learn to play one adult against
the other.

 **Show respect**. Treat your child with respect. By respecting your child,
you build trust. Behave the way you want your child to behave.

 **Follow through on your discipline**. If you tell your child that she will
lose her TV time today if she hits, be prepared to turn off the TV for the
day.

DO NOT make huge threats of punishment that you will never do. When you
threaten a punishment but do not follow through, your child learns that you do
not mean what you say.

Instead, pick punishments that you can and are willing to do. For example, if
your kids are fighting, say: "The fighting must stop now, if you do not stop,
we will not go to the movies." If your kids do not stop fighting, DO NOT go to
the movies. Your kids will learn that you mean what you say.

 **Be calm, friendly, and firm**. A child may become angry, tearful, or sad,
or may start a tantrum. The calmer your behavior is, the more likely your
children will pattern their behavior after yours. If you spank or hit, you are
showing them that it is acceptable to solve problems with violence.

 **Look for patterns.** Does your child always get upset and act out over the
same thing or in the same situation? If you understand what triggers your
child's behavior, you may be able to prevent or avoid it.

 **Know when to apologize**. Remember that being a parent is a hard job.
Sometimes you will get out of control and not behave well. When this happens,
apologize to your child. Let him know that you will respond differently the
next time.

 **Help your child with tantrums**. Allow your children to express their
feelings, but at the same time, help them cope with anger and frustration
without violent or aggressive behavior. Here are some tips on dealing with
temper tantrums:

      * When you see your child starting to get worked-up, distract her attention with a new activity.
      * If distraction does not work, ignore your child. Every time you react to a tantrum, you reward the negative behavior with extra attention. Scolding, punishing, or even trying to reason with the child may cause your child to act up more.
      * If you are in public, remove the child without discussion or fuss. Wait until the child calms down before resuming your activities.
      * If the tantrum involves hitting, biting, or other harmful behavior, DO NOT ignore it. Tell the child that the behavior will not be tolerated. Move the child away for a few minutes.
      * Remember, children cannot understand lots of explanations. DO NOT attempt to reason. Give the punishment right away. If you wait, the child will not connect the punishment with the behavior.
      * DO NOT give into your rules during a tantrum. If you give in, your child has learned that tantrums work.

 **What you need to know about spanking**. Experts have found that spanking:

      * Can make children more aggressive.
      * Can get out of control and the child can get hurt.
      * Teaches children that it isÂ OK to hurt someone they love.
      * Teaches children to be afraid of their parent.
      * Teaches children to avoid being caught, rather than learning better behavior.
      * May reinforce bad behavior in children acting out just to get attention. Even negative attention is better than no attention.

 **When to seek help**. If you have tried many parenting techniques, but
things are not going well with your child, it is a good idea to talk with your
child's health care provider.

You should also talk to your child's provider if you find that your child:

      * Disrespects all adults
      * Is always fighting everyone
      * Seems depressed or blue
      * Does not seem to have friends or activities that they enjoy

## Alternative Names

Setting limits; Teaching children; Punishment; Well child care - discipline

## References

American Academy of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry website. Discipline. No. 43.
www.aacap.org/AACAP/Families_and_Youth/Facts_for_Families/FFF-
Guide/Discipline-043.aspx. Updated March 2015. Accessed November 20, 2018.

American Academy of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry website. Policy statement on
corporal punishment.
www.aacap.org/aacap/Policy_Statements/2012/Policy_Statement_on_Corporal_Punishment.aspx.
Updated July 30, 2012. Accessed November 20, 2018.

American Academy of Pediatrics, Healthychildren.org website. What's the best
way to discipline my child? www.healthychildren.org/English/family-
life/family-dynamics/communication-discipline/Pages/Disciplining-Your-
Child.aspx. Updated November 5, 2018. Accessed November 20, 2018.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Child Behavior
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildBehaviorDisorders_thumb.jpg)Child
Behavior Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

