Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000919.htm    
                                Description: Conduct disorder is a set of ongoing emotional and behavioral problems that occurs in children and teens. Problems may involve defiant or impulsive behavior, drug use, or criminal activity.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Conduct disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000919.htm

# Conduct disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Conduct disorder is a set of ongoing emotional and behavioral problems that
occurs in children and teens. Problems may involve defiant or impulsive
behavior, drug use, or criminal activity.

## Causes

Conduct disorder has been linked to:

      * Child abuse
      * Drug or alcohol use in the parents
      * Family conflicts
      * Gene disorders
      * Poverty

The diagnosis is more common among boys.

It is hard to know how many children have the disorder. This is because many
of the qualities for diagnosis, such as "defiance" and "rule breaking," are
hard to define. For a diagnosis of conduct disorder, the behavior must be much
more extreme than is socially acceptable.

Conduct disorder is often linked to attention-deficit disorder. Conduct
disorder also can be an early sign of depression or bipolar disorder.

## Symptoms

Children with conduct disorder tend to be impulsive, hard to control, and not
concerned about the feelings of other people.

Symptoms may include:

      * Breaking rules without clear reason
      * Cruel or aggressive behavior toward people or animals (for example: bullying, fighting, using dangerous weapons, forcing sexual activity, and stealing)
      * Not going to school (truancy, beginning before age 13)
      * Heavy drinking and/or heavy drug use
      * Intentionally setting fires
      * Lying to get a favor or avoid things they have to do
      * Running away
      * Vandalizing or destroying property

These children often make no effort to hide their aggressive behaviors. They
may have a hard time making real friends.

## Exams and Tests

There is no real test for diagnosing conduct disorder. The diagnosis is made
when a child or teen has a history of conduct disorder behaviors.

A physical examination and blood tests can help rule out medical conditions
that are similar to conduct disorder. In rare cases, a brain scan helps rule
out other disorders.

## Treatment

For treatment to be successful, it must be started early. The child's family
also needs to be involved. Parents can learn techniques to help manage their
child's problem behavior.

In cases of abuse, the child may need to be removed from the family and placed
in a less chaotic home. Treatment with medicines or talk therapy may be used
for depression and attention-deficit disorder.

Many "behavioral modification" schools, "wilderness programs," and "boot
camps" are sold to parents as solutions for conduct disorder. There is no
research to support these programs. Research does suggest that treating
children at home, along with their families, is more effective.

Children who are diagnosed and treated early usually overcome their behavioral
problems.

Children who have severe or frequent symptoms and who are not able to complete
treatment tend to have the poorest outlook.

## Possible Complications

Children with conduct disorder may go on to develop personality disorders as
adults, particularly antisocial personality disorder. As their behaviors
worsen, these individuals may also develop problems with drug abuse and the
law.

Depression and bipolar disorder may develop in the teen years and early
adulthood. Suicide and violence toward others are also possible complications.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See a health care provider if your child:

      * Regularly gets in trouble
      * Has mood swings
      * Is bullying others or cruel to animals
      * Is being victimized
      * Seems to be overly aggressive 

Early treatment may help.

## Prevention

The sooner treatment is started, the more likely the child will learn adaptive
behaviors and avoid potential complications.

## Alternative Names

Disruptive behavior - child; Impulse control problem - child

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Disruptive, impulse-control, and conduct
disorders. _Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders_. 5th ed.
Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing; 2013:469-475.

Walter HJ, Rashid A, Moseley LR, DeMaso DR. Disruptive, impulse-control, and
conduct disorders. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds.
_Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 29.

Weissman AR, Gould CM, Sanders KM. Impulse-control disorders. In: Stern TA,
Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General Hospital
Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry._ 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 23.

## Review Date 2/24/2019

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Child Behavior
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildBehaviorDisorders_thumb.jpg)Child
Behavior Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

