Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000114.htm    
                                Description: Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis (PAP) is a rare disease in which a type of protein builds up in the air sacs (alveoli) of the lungs, making breathing difficult. Pulmonary means related to the lungs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000114.htm

# Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis (PAP) is a rare disease in which a type of
protein builds up in the air sacs (alveoli) of the lungs, making breathing
difficult. Pulmonary means related to the lungs.

## Causes

In some cases, the cause of PAP is unknown. In others, it occurs with lung
infection or an immune problem. It also can occur with cancers of the blood
system, and after exposure to high levels of environmental substances, such as
silica or aluminum dust.

People between 30 and 50 years old are most often affected. PAP is seen in men
more often than in women. A form of the disorder is present at birth
(congenital).

## Symptoms

Symptoms of PAP may include any of the following:

      * Shortness of breath
      * Cough
      * Fatigue
      * Fever, if there is lung infection
      * Bluish skin (cyanosis) in severe cases
      * Weight loss

Sometimes, there are no symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will listen to the lungs with a stethoscope and may
hear crackles (rales) in the lungs. Often, the physical examination is normal.

The following tests may be done:

      * Bronchoscopy with saline wash of the lungs (lavage)
      * Chest x-ray
      * CT scan of the chest
      * Lung function tests
      * Open lung biopsy (surgical biopsy) 

## Treatment

Treatment involves washing out the protein substance from the lung (whole-lung
lavage) from time to time. Some people may need a lung transplant. Avoiding
dusts that might have caused the condition is also recommended.

Another treatment that may be tried is a blood-stimulating drug called
granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF), which is lacking in
some people with alveolar proteinosis.

## Support Groups

These resources can provide more information on PAP:

      * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/pulmonary-alveolar-proteinosis
      * PAP Foundation -- www.papfoundation.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Some people with PAP go into remission. Others have a decline in lung
infection (respiratory failure) that gets worse, and they may need a lung
transplant.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop serious breathing symptoms. Shortness of
breath that gets worse over time may signal that your condition is developing
into a medical emergency.

## Alternative Names

PAP; Alveolar proteinosis; Pulmonary alveolar phospholipoproteinosis; Alveolar
lipoproteinosis phospholipidosis

## Patient Instructions

      * Interstitial lung disease - adults - discharge

## Images

      * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Levine SM. Alveolar filling disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 85.

Trapnell BC, Luisetti M. Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis syndrome. In: Broaddus
VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of
Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap
70.

## Review Date 5/16/2019

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

