Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000104.htm    
                                Description: Drug-induced pulmonary disease is lung disease brought on by a bad reaction to a medicine.Â Pulmonary means related to the lungs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Drug-induced pulmonary disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000104.htm

# Drug-induced pulmonary disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Drug-induced pulmonary disease is lung disease brought on by a bad reaction to
a medicine.Â Pulmonary means related to the lungs.

## Causes

Many types of lung injury can result from medicines. It is usually impossible
to predict who will develop lung disease from a medicine.

Types of lung problems or diseases that may be caused by medicines include:

      * Allergic reactions \-- asthma, hypersensitivity pneumonitis, or eosinophilic pneumonia
      * Bleeding into the lung air sacs, called alveoli (alveolar hemorrhage)
      * Swelling and inflamed tissue in the main passages that carry air to the lungs (bronchitis)
      * Damage to lung tissue (interstitial fibrosis)
      * Drugs that cause the immune system to mistakenly attack and destroy healthy body tissue, such as drug-induced lupus erythematosus
      * Granulomatous lung disease -- a type of inflammation in the lungs
      * Inflammation of the lung air sacs (pneumonitis or infiltration)
      * Lung vasculitis (inflammation of lung blood vessels)
      * Lymph node swelling
      * Swelling and irritation (inflammation) of the chest area between the lungsÂ (mediastinitis)
      * Abnormal buildup of fluid in the lungsÂ (pulmonary edema)
      * Buildup of fluid between the layers of tissue that line the lungs and chest cavityÂ (pleural effusion)

Many medicines and substances are known to cause lung disease in some people.
These include:

      * Antibiotics, such as nitrofurantoin and sulfa drugs
      * Heart medicines, such as amiodarone
      * Chemotherapy drugs such as bleomycin, cyclophosphamide, and methotrexate
      * Street drugs

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

      * Bloody sputum
      * Chest pain
      * Cough 
      * Fever
      * Shortness of breath
      * Wheezing

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and listen to your chest
and lungs with a stethoscope. Abnormal breath sounds may be heard.

Tests that may be done include:

      * Arterial blood gases
      * Blood test to check for an autoimmuneÂ disorder
      * Blood chemistry
      * Bronchoscopy
      * Complete blood count with blood differential
      * Chest CT scan
      * Chest x-ray
      * Lung biopsy (in rare cases)
      * Lung function tests
      * Thoracentesis (if pleural effusion is present)

## Treatment

The first step is to stop theÂ medicine that is causing the problem. Other
treatments depend on your specific symptoms. For example, you may need oxygen
until the drug-induced lung disease improves. Anti-inflammatory medicines
called corticosteroids are most often used to quickly reverse the lung
inflammation.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Acute episodes usually go away within 48Â to 72 hours after the medicine has
been stopped. Chronic symptoms may take longer to improve.

Some drug-induced lung diseases, such as pulmonary fibrosis, may never go away
and can worsen, even after the medicine or substance is stopped and can lead
to severe lung disease and death.

## Possible Complications

Complications that may develop include:

      * Diffuse interstitial pulmonary fibrosis
      * Hypoxemia (low blood oxygen)
      * Respiratory failure

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of this disorder.

## Prevention

Note any past reaction you have had to a medicine, so that you can avoid the
medicine in the future. Wear a medical alert bracelet if you have known drug
reactions. Stay away from street drugs.

## Alternative Names

Interstitial lung disease - drug induced

## Patient Instructions

      * Interstitial lung disease - adults - discharge

## Images

      * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Dulohery MM, Maldonado F, Limper AH. Drug-induced pulmonary disease. In:
Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of
Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap
71.

Kurian ST, Walker CM, Chung JH. Drug-Induced lung disease. In: Walker CM,
Chung JH, eds. _Muller's Imaging of the Chest_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2019:chap 65.

Taylor AC, Verma N, Slater R, Mohammed TL. Bad for breathing: a pictorial of
drug-induced pulmonary disease. _Curr Probl Digan Radiol_. 2016;45(6):429-432.
PMID: 26717864 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26717864.

## Review Date 5/16/2019

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

