Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000066.htm    
                                Description: Lung disease is any problem in the lungs that prevents the lungs from working properly. There are three main types of lung disease:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lung disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000066.htm

# Lung disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Lung disease is any problem in the lungs that prevents the lungs from working
properly. There are three main types of lung disease:

      1. Airway diseases -- These diseases affect the tubes (airways) that carry oxygen and other gases into and out of the lungs. They usually cause a narrowing or blockage of the airways. Airway diseases include asthma, COPD and bronchiectasis. People with airway diseases often say they feel as if they're "trying to breathe out through a straw."
      2. Lung tissue diseases -- These diseases affect the structure of the lung tissue. Scarring or inflammation of the tissue makes the lungs unable to expand fully (restrictive lung disease). This makes it hard for the lungs to take in oxygen and release carbon dioxide. People with this type of lung disorder often say they feel as if they are "wearing a too-tight sweater or vest." As a result, they can't breathe deeply. Pulmonary fibrosis and sarcoidosis are examples of lung tissue disease.
      3. Lung circulation diseases -- These diseases affect the blood vessels in the lungs. They are caused by clotting, scarring, or inflammation of the blood vessels. They affect the ability of the lungs to take up oxygen and release carbon dioxide. These diseases may also affect heart function. An example of a lung circulation disease is pulmonary hypertension. People with these conditions often feel very short of breath when they exert themselves. 

Many lung diseases involve a combination of these three types.

![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/9248.jpg)

The most common lung diseases include:

      * Asthma
      * Collapse of part or all of the lung (pneumothorax or atelectasis)
      * Swelling and inflammation in the main passages (bronchial tubes) that carry air to the lungs (bronchitis)
      * COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease)
      * Lung cancer
      * Lung infection (pneumonia)
      * Abnormal buildup of fluid in the lungs (pulmonary edema)
      * Blocked lung artery (pulmonary embolus) 

## Patient Instructions

      * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease - adults - discharge
      * COPD - control drugs
      * COPD - quick-relief drugs

## Images

      * ![Pulmonary mass - side view chest X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1624t.jpg)Pulmonary mass - side view chest x-ray
      * ![Lung mass, right lung - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1631t.jpg)Lung mass, right lung - CT scan
      * ![Lung mass, right upper lung - chest X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1632t.jpg)Lung mass, right upper lung - chest x-ray
      * ![Lung with squamous cell cancer - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1637t.jpg)Lung with squamous cell cancer - CT scan
      * ![Secondhand smoke and lung cancer](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19349t.jpg)Secondhand smoke and lung cancer
      * ![Yellow nail syndrome](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2014t.jpg)Yellow nail syndrome
      * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Kraft M. Approach to the patient with respiratory disease. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 83.

Reid PT, Innes JA. Respiratory medicine. In: Ralston SH, Penman ID, Strachan
MWJ, Hobson RP, eds. _Davidson's Principles and Practice of Medicine_. 23rd
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Ltd; 2019:chap 17.

## Review Date 7/28/2018

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

