Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000111.htm    
                                Description: Respiratory alkalosis is a condition marked by a low level of carbon dioxide in the blood due to breathing excessively.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Respiratory alkalosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000111.htm

# Respiratory alkalosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Respiratory alkalosis is a condition marked by a low level of carbon dioxide
in the blood due to breathing excessively.

## Causes

Common causes include:

      * Anxiety or panic
      * Fever
      * Overbreathing (hyperventilation)
      * Pregnancy (this is normal)
      * Pain
      * Tumor
      * Trauma
      * Severe anemia
      * Liver disease
      * Overdose of certain medicines, such as salicylates, progesterone 

Any lung disease that leads to shortness of breath can also cause respiratory
alkalosis (such as pulmonary embolism and asthma).

## Symptoms

The symptoms may include:

      * Dizziness
      * Lightheadedness
      * Numbness of the hands and feet
      * Breathlessness
      * Confusion
      * Chest discomfort

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical exam. Tests that may be done
include:

      * Arterial blood gas, which measures oxygen and carbon dioxide levels in the blood
      * Basic metabolic panel
      * Chest x-ray
      * Pulmonary function testsÂ to measure breathing and how well the lungs are functioning

## Treatment

Treatment is aimed at the condition that causes respiratory alkalosis.
Breathing into a paper bag -- or using a mask that causes you to re-breathe
carbon dioxide -- sometimes helps reduce symptoms when anxiety is the main
cause of the condition.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outlook depends on the condition that is causing the respiratory alkalosis.

## Possible Complications

Seizures may occur if the alkalosis is extremely severe. This is very rare.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have any symptoms of lung disease, such as long-term
(chronic) cough or shortness of breath.

## Alternative Names

Alkalosis - respiratory

## Images

      * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Effros RM, Swenson ER. Acid-base balance. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD,
et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 7.

Seifter JL. Acid-base disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 118.

Strayer RJ. Acid-base disorders. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice._ 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 116.

## Review Date 7/28/2018

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

