Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003748.htm    
                                Description: Bronchoscopic culture is a laboratory exam to check a piece of tissue or fluid from the lungs for infection-causing germs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bronchoscopic culture

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003748.htm

# Bronchoscopic culture

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bronchoscopic culture is a laboratory exam to check a piece of tissue or fluid
from the lungs for infection-causing germs.

## How the Test is Performed

A procedure called bronchoscopy is used to get a sample (biopsy or brush) of
lung tissue or fluid.

The sample is sent to a laboratory. There, it is placed in a special dish
(culture). It is then watched to see if bacteria or other disease-causing
germs grow. Treatment is based on the results of the culture.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Follow your health care provider's instructions on how to prepare for
bronchoscopy.

## How the Test will Feel

Your provider will tell you what to expect during bronchoscopy.

## Why the Test is Performed

A bronchoscopic culture is done to find infection in the lung that cannot be
accurately detected by a sputum culture. The procedure may find the following
things, such as:

      * Abnormal secretions
      * Abnormal lung tissue
      * Abscesses
      * Inflammation
      * Obstructive lesions, such as cancer or foreign bodies

## Normal Results

No organisms are seen on the culture.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal culture results usually indicate a respiratory infection. The
infection may be caused by bacteria, viruses, parasites, mycobacteria, or
fungi. The results of the culture will help determine the best treatment.

Not all organisms found with bronchoscopic culture need to be treated. YourÂ
provider will tell you more about this if needed.

## Risks

Your provider can discuss the risks of the bronchoscopy procedure with you.

## Alternative Names

Culture - bronchoscopic

## Images

      * ![Bronchoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23232t.jpg)Bronchoscopy
      * ![Bronchoscopic culture](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9137t.jpg)Bronchoscopic culture

## References

Beamer S, Jaroszewski DE, Viggiano RW, Smith ML. Optimal processing of
diagnostic lung specimens. In: Leslie KO, Wick MR, eds. _Practical Pulmonary
Pathology: A Diagnostic Approach_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 3.

Kupeli E, Feller-Kopman D, Mehta AC. Diagnostic bronchoscopy. In: Broaddus VC,
Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 22.

## Review Date 10/23/2017

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

