Link: https://medlineplus.gov/connect/application.html    
                                Description: MedlinePlus Connect is available as a web application. Learn more about implementing the application and requesting information through MedlinePlus Connect.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

You Are Here:

Home ->

MedlinePlus Connect ->

Web Application

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/connect/application.html

# MedlinePlus Connect: Web Application

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

MedlinePlus Connect is available as a Web application or Web service. Below
are the technical details for implementing the Web application, which responds
to requests based on:

    * diagnosis (problem) codes 
    * medication codes, 
    * and lab test codes.

If you decide to use MedlinePlus Connect, sign up for the email list to keep
up with developments and exchange ideas with your colleagues. Please tell us
if you implement MedlinePlus Connect by contacting us. You are welcome to link
to and display the data provided by MedlinePlus Connect. For more information
on how to link to MedlinePlus content outside of this service, please see our
guidelines and instructions on linking.

## Web Application Overview

The API for the Web application conforms to the HL7 Context-Aware Knowledge
Retrieval (Infobutton) Knowledge Request URL-Based Implementation
specification. The structure of the request indicates what type of code you
are sending. In all cases, the base URL for the Web application is:
https://connect.medlineplus.gov/application

MedlinePlus Connect uses HTTPS connections. HTTP requests will not be accepted
and existing implementations using HTTP should update to HTTPS.

## Requests for Diagnosis (Problem) Codes

MedlinePlus Connect matches ICD-10-CM, ICD-9-CM or SNOMED CT codes to related
MedlinePlus topic pages of consumer health information. For example, a patient
diagnosed with ICD-9-CM code 493.12, Extrinsic asthma with exacerbation, could
be presented a link in an electronic health record (EHR) that leads to the
MedlinePlus page Asthma.

Clicking on the link brings the user to a MedlinePlus Connect response page
displaying up to three MedlinePlus topic summaries and selected links, if
available. From that page, a user may continue to the complete MedlinePlus
health topic page, or to any of the individual links on the response page.

Some SNOMED CT and ICD-10-CM requests may also produce responses from Genetics
Home Reference (GHR). Currently these GHR links are available only for English
SNOMED CT and ICD-10-CM requests.

For requests by problem, the base URL of the application is:
https://connect.medlineplus.gov/application

This link displays a page with an empty search box. There are two required
parameters for any query to this application:

    1. Identify the problem code system you will be using.  

For ICD-10-CM use:

    mainSearchCriteria.v.cs=2.16.840.1.113883.6.90

For ICD-9-CM use:

    mainSearchCriteria.v.cs=2.16.840.1.113883.6.103

For SNOMED CT use:

    mainSearchCriteria.v.cs=2.16.840.1.113883.6.96
    2. Identify the actual code that you are trying to look up: mainSearchCriteria.v.c=250.33

### Optional Parameters

Identify the name/title of the problem code. Sending no code will result in a
query to the MedlinePlus search engine. If you specify a code and the
name/title of the code, but MedlinePlus Connect has no results, the response
page will display a MedlinePlus search box prepopulated with the name/title.
mainSearchCriteria.v.dn=Diabetes mellitus with other coma type 1 uncontrolled

Identify if you would like the request to be in English or Spanish.
MedlinePlus Connect will assume English is the language if it is not
specified.

If you wish the response to the problem code lookup to be in Spanish, use :
informationRecipient.languageCode.c=es  
(=sp also accepted)

To specify English, use the following: informationRecipient.languageCode.c=en

### Examples of Requests for Problem Codes

A complete request for Diabetes Mellitus with other coma type 1 uncontrolled,
ICD-9 code 250.33, for a Spanish speaking patient would have the following URL
address:
https://connect.medlineplus.gov/application?mainSearchCriteria.v.cs=2.16.840.1.113883.6.103&mainSearchCriteria.v.c;=250.33&mainSearchCriteria.v.dn;=Diabetes%20mellitus%20with%20other%20coma%20type%201%20uncontrolled&informationRecipient.languageCode.c;=es

A patient diagnosed with "Pneumonia due to Pseudomonas" using SNOMED CT code
41381004:
https://connect.medlineplus.gov/application?mainSearchCriteria.v.cs=2.16.840.1.113883.6.96&mainSearchCriteria.v.c;=41381004&mainSearchCriteria.v.dn;=Pneumonia%20due%20to%20Pseudomonas%20%28disorder%29&informationRecipient.languageCode.c;=en

A freeform query, with no code system or problem code, will use the
MedlinePlus search engine (English only):
https://connect.medlineplus.gov/application?mainSearchCriteria.v.dn=Type+2+Diabetes

## Requests for Drug Information

MedlinePlus Connect provides the best drug information matches when receiving
an RXCUI. It also provides good results when receiving an NDC code.
MedlinePlus Connect can provide responses to medication code requests in
English or Spanish and will return a link to a results page with the best
matches from the MedlinePlus drug information.

For requests for English medication information, if you do not send an NDC or
RXCUI code or if we find no match based on the code, we will use the text
string that you send to display the best drug information match. For requests
for Spanish medication information, MedlinePlus Connect responds only to NDCs
or RXCUIs; it does not use text strings. It is possible to have a response in
English but no response in Spanish.

There may be multiple responses to one medication request. There may not
always be a match for each request. If MedlinePlus Connect finds a null
response for a drug request, the program displays a search box for the
MedlinePlus site. A user can type in a drug name and may get a good response.

For requests for drug information, the base URL is:
https://connect.medlineplus.gov/application

Requests for English and Spanish medication information have different
requirements. To send a request, include these pieces of information:

    1. Identify the type of medication code you are sending. (Required for English and Spanish)  

For RXCUI use:

    mainSearchCriteria.v.cs=2.16.840.1.113883.6.88

For NDC use:

    mainSearchCriteria.v.cs=2.16.840.1.113883.6.69
    2. Identify the actual code you are trying to look up. (Preferred for English, Required for Spanish) mainSearchCriteria.v.c=637188
    3. Identify the name of the drug with a text string. (Optional for English, Not used for Spanish) mainSearchCriteria.v.dn=Chantix 0.5 MG Oral Tablet

For English requests, you should identify at a minimum the code system and the
code, or the code system and the name of the drug. Send all three for best
results for English requests. For Spanish requests, you should identity the
code system and the code.

### Optional Parameters

When sending a request for English information, you may include the optional
parameter of the name of the medication. This is detailed in the above
section. This parameter is not used for Spanish requests.

Identify if you would like the request to be in English or Spanish.
MedlinePlus Connect will assume English is the language if it is not
specified.

If you wish the response to the medication code lookup to be in Spanish, use:
informationRecipient.languageCode.c=es (=sp also accepted)

To specify English, use the following: informationRecipient.languageCode.c=en

### Examples of Requests for Drug Codes

Your drug information request should look like one of the following.

To request information by an RXCUI, your request should look like this:
https://connect.medlineplus.gov/application?mainSearchCriteria.v.cs=2.16.840.1.113883.6.88&mainSearchCriteria.v.c;=%20637188%20&mainSearchCriteria.v.dn;=Chantix%200.5%20MG%20Oral%20Tablet&informationRecipient.languageCode.c;=en

To request information by an NDC for a Spanish speaker, your request should
look like this:
https://connect.medlineplus.gov/application?mainSearchCriteria.v.cs=2.16.840.1.113883.6.69&mainSearchCriteria.v.c;=%2000310-0751-39&informationRecipient.languageCode.c;=es

To send a text string without a medication code, you must identify your query
as an NDC-type request so MedlinePlus Connect knows you are looking for
medication information. This will work for English only. Your request could
look like this:
https://connect.medlineplus.gov/application?mainSearchCriteria.v.cs=2.16.840.1.113883.6.69&mainSearchCriteria.v.dn;=Chantix%200.5%20MG%20Oral%20Tablet&informationRecipient.languageCode.c;=en

## Requests for Lab Test Information

MedlinePlus Connect provides matches to laboratory test information when
receiving a LOINC request. MedlinePlus Connect can provide responses to lab
test requests in English or Spanish and will return a link to a results page
with the best matches from the MedlinePlus lab test information.

For requests for lab test information, the base URL is:
https://connect.medlineplus.gov/application

These are two required parameters for any lab test query to this application:

    1. Identify that you are using the LOINC code system.   

For LOINC use:

    mainSearchCriteria.v.cs=2.16.840.1.113883.6.1

MedlinePlus Connect will also accept:

    mainSearchCriteria.v.cs=2.16.840.1.113883.11.79
    2. Identify the actual code you are trying to look up.  mainSearchCriteria.v.c=3187-2

### Optional Parameters

Identify the name/title of the lab test. However, this information does not
impact the response. mainSearchCriteria.v.dn=Factor IX assay

Identify if you would like the request to be in English or Spanish.
MedlinePlus Connect will assume English is the language if it is not
specified.

If you wish the response to the problem code lookup to be in Spanish, use:
informationRecipient.languageCode.c=es (=sp also accepted)

To specify English, use the following: informationRecipient.languageCode.c=en

A freeform query, with no code system or lab code, will use the MedlinePlus
search engine. This approach is more effective with diagnoses (see the problem
code information above) instead of lab test text strings. Your lab test
information request should look like one of the following.

### Examples of Requests for Lab Tests

To request information for an English speaker, your request may look like one
of the following:
https://connect.medlineplus.gov/application?mainSearchCriteria.v.cs=2.16.840.1.113883.6.1&mainSearchCriteria.v.c;=3187-2&mainSearchCriteria.v.dn;=Factor%20IX%20assay&informationRecipient.languageCode.c;=en
https://connect.medlineplus.gov/application?mainSearchCriteria.v.cs=2.16.840.1.113883.6.1&mainSearchCriteria.v.c;=3187-2&informationRecipient.languageCode.c;=en

To request information for a Spanish speaker, your request may look like one
of the following:
https://connect.medlineplus.gov/application?mainSearchCriteria.v.cs=2.16.840.1.113883.6.1&mainSearchCriteria.v.c;=3187-2&mainSearchCriteria.v.dn;=Factor%20IX%20assay&informationRecipient.languageCode.c;=es
https://connect.medlineplus.gov/application?mainSearchCriteria.v.cs=2.16.840.1.113883.6.1&mainSearchCriteria.v.c;=3187-2&informationRecipient.languageCode.c;=es

## Acceptable Use Policy

In order to avoid overloading the MedlinePlus servers, NLM requires that users
of MedlinePlus Connect send no more than 100 requests per minute per IP
address. Requests that exceed this limit will not be serviced, and service
will not be restored for 300 seconds or until the request rate falls beneath
the limit, whichever comes later. To limit the number of requests that you
send to Connect, NLM recommends caching results for a 12-24 hour period.

This policy is in place to ensure that the service remains available and
accessible to all users. If you have a specific use case that requires you to
send a large number of requests to MedlinePlus Connect, and thus exceed the
request rate limit outlined in this policy, please contact us. NLM staff will
evaluate your request and determine if an exception may be granted. Please
also review the MedlinePlus XML files documentation. These XML files contain
complete health topic records and can serve as an alternate method of
accessing MedlinePlus data.

## More Information

    * How MedlinePlus Connect Works
    * Demonstrations -- Web application and Web service
    * Technical information for developers 
    * Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
    * MedlinePlus Connect email list
    * Contact MedlinePlus Connect 

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 7 November 2019

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

