Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007289.htm    
                                Description: Lung plethysmography is a test used to measure how much air you can hold in your lungs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lung plethysmography

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007289.htm

# Lung plethysmography

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Lung plethysmography is a test used to measure how much air you can hold in
your lungs.

## How the Test is Performed

You will sit in a large airtight cabin known as a body box. The walls of the
cabin are clear so that you and the health care provider can see each other.
You will breathe or pant against a mouthpiece. Clips will be put on your nose
to close off your nostrils. Depending on the information your doctor is
looking for, the mouthpiece may be open at first, and then closed.

You will breathe against the mouthpiece in both the open and closed positions.
The positions give different information to the doctor. As your chest moves
while you breathe or pant, it changes the pressure and amount of air in the
room and against the mouthpiece. From these changes, the doctor can get an
accurate measure of the amount of air in your lungs.

Depending on the purpose of the test, you may be given medicine before the
test.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Let your doctor know if you are taking any medicines, particularly ones for
breathing problems. You may have to temporarily stop taking certain medicines
before the test.

Wear loose clothes that allow you to breathe comfortably.

Avoid smoking and heavy exercise for 6 hours before the test.

Avoid heavy meals before the test. They can affect your ability to take deep
breaths.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves rapid and normal breathing, and should not be painful. You
may feel short of breath or lightheaded. You will be monitored at all times by
a technician.

The mouthpiece may feel uncomfortable against your mouth.

If you have trouble in tight spaces, the box might make you anxious. But it is
clear and you can see outside at all times.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is done to see how much air you can hold in your lungs during rest.
It helps your doctor determine if a lung problem is due to damage to the lung
structure, or a loss of the lungs' ability to expand (get bigger as air flows
in).

Although this test is the most accurate way to measure how much air you can
hold in your lungs, it is not often used because of its technical
difficulties.

## Normal Results

Normal results depend on your age, height, weight,Â ethnic background, and
gender.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results point to a problem in the lungs. This problem can be due to a
breakdown of the lung structure, a problem with the chest wall and its
muscles, or a problem with the lungs being able to expand and contract.

Lung plethysmography will not find the cause of the problem. But it helps the
doctor narrow down the list of possible problems.

## Risks

Risks of this test may include feeling:

      * Anxiety from being in the closed box
      * Dizzy
      * Lightheaded
      * Short of breath 

## Alternative Names

Pulmonary plethysmography; Static lung volume determination; Whole-body
plethysmography

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Pulmonary function tests (PFT) - diagnostic. In:
Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_.
6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:chap P.

Gold WM, Koth LL. Pulmonary function testing. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst
JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 25.

## Review Date 7/20/2018

Updated by: Allen J. Blaivas, DO, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and
Sleep Medicine, VA New Jersey Health Care System, Clinical Assistant
Professor, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, East Orange, NJ. Review provided
by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

