Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001209.htm    
                                Description: Russell-Silver syndrome (RSS) is a disorder present at birth involving poor growth. One side of the body may also appear to be larger than the other.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Russell-Silver syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001209.htm

# Russell-Silver syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Russell-Silver syndrome (RSS) is a disorder present at birth involving poor
growth. One side of the body may also appear to be larger than the other.

## Causes

One in 10 children with this syndromeÂ has a problem involving chromosome 7.
In other people withÂ the syndrome, it may affect chromosome 11.

Most of the time, it occurs in people with no family history of the disease.

The estimated number of people who develop this condition varies greatly.
Males and females are equally affected.

## Symptoms

Symptoms can include:

      * Birthmarks that are the color of coffee with milk (cafe-au-laitÂ marks)
      * Large head for body size, wide forehead with a small triangle-shaped face and small, narrow chinÂ   

      * Curving of the pinky toward the ring finger
      * Failure to thrive, including delayed bone age
      * Low birth weight
      * Short height, short arms, stubby fingers and toes
      * Stomach and intestine problems such as acid reflux and constipation

## Exams and Tests

The condition is usually diagnosed by early childhood. The health care
provider will perform a physical exam.

There are no specific laboratory tests to diagnose RSS. Diagnosis is usually
based on the judgment of your child's provider. However, the following tests
may be done:

      * Blood sugar (some children may have low blood sugar)
      * Bone age testing (bone age is often younger than the child's actual age)
      * Genetic testing (may detect a chromosomal problem)
      * Growth hormone (some children may have a deficiency)
      * Skeletal survey (to rule out other conditions that may mimic RSS) 

## Treatment

Growth hormone replacement may help if this hormone is lacking. Other
treatments include:

      * Making sure the person gets enough calories to prevent low blood sugar and promote growth
      * Physical therapy to improve muscle tone
      * Educational assistance to address learning disabilities and attention deficit problems the child may haveÂ 

Many specialists may be involved in treating a person with this condition.
They include:

      * A doctor specializing in geneticsÂ to help diagnose RSS
      * A gastroenterologist or dietician to help develop the proper diet to enhance growth
      * An endocrinologistÂ to prescribe growth hormone
      * A genetic counselor and psychologist 

## Support Groups

These organizations can provide support and more information on Russell-Silver
syndrome:

      * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/russell-silver-syndrome
      * NIH/NLM Genetics Home Reference -- ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/russell-silver-syndrome#genes

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Older children and adultsÂ do notÂ show typical features as clearly as infants
or younger children. Intelligence may be normal, although theÂ person may have
a learning disability.Â Birth defects of the urinary tract may be present.

## Possible Complications

People with RSS may have these problems:

      * Chewing or speaking difficulty if jaw is very small
      * Learning disabilities

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your child's provider if signs of RSS develop. Make sure your child's
height and weight are measured during each well-child visit. The provider may
refer you to:

      * A genetic professional for a full evaluation and chromosome studies
      * A pediatric endocrinologist for management of your child's growth problems

## Alternative Names

Silver-Russell syndrome; Silver syndrome; RSS; Russell-Silver syndrome

## References

Haldeman-Englert CR, Saitta SC, Zackai EH. Chromosome disorders. In: Gleason
CA, Juul SE, eds. _Avery's Diseases of the Newborn._ 10th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 20.

Wakeling EL, Brioude F, Lokulo-Sodipe O, et al. Diagnosis and management of
Silver-Russell syndrome: first international consensus statement. _Nat Rev
Endocrinol_. 2017;13(2):105-124. PMID: 27585961
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27585961.

## Review Date 10/15/2018

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Growth
Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GrowthDisorders_thumb.jpg)Growth
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

