Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001176.htm    
                                Description: Growth hormone deficiency means the pituitary gland does not make enough growth hormone.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Growth hormone deficiency - children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001176.htm

# Growth hormone deficiency - children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Growth hormone deficiency means the pituitary gland does not make enough
growth hormone.

## Causes

The pituitary gland is located at the base of the brain. This gland controls
the body's balance of hormones. It also makes growth hormone. This hormone
causes a child to grow.

Growth hormone deficiency may be present at birth. Growth hormone deficiency
may be the result of a medical condition. Severe brain injury may also cause
growth hormone deficiency.

Children with physical defects of the face and skull, such as cleft lip or
cleft palate, may have decreased growth hormone level.

Most of the time, the cause of growth hormone deficiency is unknown.

## Symptoms

Slow growth may first be noticed in infancy and continue through childhood.
The pediatrician will most often draw the child's growth curve on a growth
chart. Children with growth hormone deficiency have a slow or flat rate of
growth. The slow growth may not show up until a child is 2 or 3 years old.

The child will be much shorter than most children of the same age and gender.
The child will still have normal body proportions, but may be chubby. The
child's face often looks younger than other children of the same age. The
child will have normal intelligence in most cases.

In older children, puberty may come late or may not come at all, depending on
the cause.

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam, including weight, height, and body proportions, will show
signs of slowed growth. The child will not follow the normal growth curves.

A hand x-ray can determine bone age. Normally, the size and shape of bones
change as a person grows. These changes can be seen on an x-ray and they most
often follow a pattern as a child grows older.

Testing is most often done after the pediatrician has looked into other causes
of poor growth. Tests that may be done include:

      * Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) and insulin-like growth factor binding protein 3 (IGFBP3). These are substances that growth hormones cause the body to make. Tests can measure these growth factors. Accurate growth hormone deficiency testing involves a stimulation test. This test takes several hours.
      * MRI of the head can show the hypothalamus and pituitary glands.
      * Tests to measure other hormone levels may be done, because a lack of growth hormone may not be the only problem. 

## Treatment

Treatment involves growth hormone shots (injections) given at home. The shots
are most often given once a day. Older children can often learn how to give
themselves the shot.

Treatment with growth hormone is long-term, often lasting for several years.
During this time, the child needs to be seen regularly by the pediatrician to
ensure the treatment is working. If needed, the health care provider will
change the dosage of the medicine.

Serious side effects of growth hormone treatment are rare. Common side effects
include:

      * Headache
      * Fluid retention
      * Muscle and joint aches
      * Slippage of the hip bones 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The earlier the condition is treated, the better the chance that a child will
grow to near-normal adult height. Many children gain 4 or more inches (about
10 centimeters) during the first year, and 3 or more inches (about 7.6
centimeters) during the next 2 years. The rate of growth then slowly
decreases.

Growth hormone therapy does not work for all children.

Left untreated, growth hormone deficiency may lead to short stature and
delayed puberty.

Growth hormone deficiency can occur with deficiencies of other hormones such
as those that control:

      * Production of thyroid hormones
      * Water balance in the body
      * Production of male and female sex hormones
      * The adrenal glands and their production of cortisol, DHEA, and other hormones 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child seems abnormally short for their age.

## Prevention

Most cases are not preventable.

Review your child's growth chart with the pediatrician at each checkup. If
there is concern about your child's growth rate, evaluation by a specialist is
recommended.

## Alternative Names

Pituitary dwarfism; Acquired growth hormone deficiency; Isolated growth
hormone deficiency; Congenital growth hormone deficiency; Panhypopituitarism;
Short stature - growth hormone deficiency

## Images

      * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
      * ![Height/weight chart](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17213t.jpg)Height/weight chart

## References

Cooke DW, Divall SA, Radovick S. Normal and aberrant growth in children. In:
Melmed S, Auchus RJ, Goldfine AB, Koenig RJ, Rosen CJ, eds. _Williams Textbook
of Endocrinology_. 14th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 25.

Grimberg A, DiVall SA, Polychronakos C, et al. Guidelines for growth hormone
and insulin-like growth factor-I treatment in children and adolescents: growth
hormone deficiency, idiopathic short stature, and primary insulin-like growth
factor-I deficiency. _Horm Res Paediatr_. 2016;86(6):361-397. PMID: 27884013
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27884013.

Patterson BC, Felner EI. Hypopituitarism. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum
NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 573.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Growth
Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GrowthDisorders_thumb.jpg)Growth
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

