Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000321.htm    
                                Description: Acromegaly is a condition in which there is too much growth hormone (GH)Â in the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Acromegaly

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000321.htm

# Acromegaly

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Acromegaly is a condition in which there is too much growth hormone (GH)Â in
the body.

## Causes

Acromegaly is a rare condition. It is caused when the pituitary gland makes
too much growth hormone. The pituitary gland is a small endocrine glandÂ
attached to the bottom of the brain. It controls, makes, and releases several
hormones, including growth hormone.

Usually a noncancerous (benign) tumor of the pituitary gland releases too much
growth hormone. In rare cases, pituitary tumors can be inherited.

In children, too much GH causes gigantism rather than acromegaly.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of acromegaly may include any of the following:

      * Body odor
      * Blood in the stool
      * Carpal tunnel syndrome
      * Decreased muscle strength (weakness)
      * Decreased peripheral vision
      * Easy fatigue
      * Excessive height (when excessÂ GH production begins in childhood)
      * Excessive sweating
      * Headache
      * Heart enlargement, which can cause fainting
      * Hoarseness
      * Jaw pain
      * Joint pain, limited joint movement, swelling of the bony areas around a joint
      * Large bones of the face, large jaw and tongue, widely spaced teeth
      * Large feet (change in shoe size), large hands (change in ring or glove size)
      * Large glands in the skin (sebaceous glands) causing oily skin, thickening of the skin, skin tags (growths)
      * Sleep apnea
      * Widened fingers or toes, with swelling, redness, and pain 

Other symptoms that may occur with this disease:

      * Colon polyps
      * Excess hair growth in females (hirsutism)
      * High blood pressure
      * Type 2 diabetes
      * Thyroid enlargement
      * Weight gain

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
symptoms.

The following tests may be ordered to confirm diagnosis of acromegaly and
check for complications:

      * Blood glucose
      * Growth hormoneÂ and growth hormone suppression test
      * Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1)
      * Prolactin
      * Spine x-ray
      * MRI of the brain, including theÂ pituitary gland
      * Echocardiogram
      * Colonoscopy
      * Sleep study

Other tests may be ordered to check whether the rest of the pituitary gland is
working normally.

## Treatment

Surgery to remove the pituitary tumor that is causing this condition often
corrects the abnormal GH. Sometimes, the tumor is too large to be removed
completely and acromegaly is not cured. In this case, medicines and radiation
(radiotherapy) may be used to treat acromegaly.

Some people with tumors that are too complicated to remove by surgery are
treated with medicines instead of surgery. These medicines may block the
production of GH from the pituitary gland or prevent the action of GH in other
parts of the body.

After treatment, you will need to see your provider regularly to make sure
that the pituitary gland is working normally and that acromegaly does not come
back. Yearly evaluations are recommended.

## Support Groups

These resources may provide further information on acromegaly:Â

      * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases -- www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/endocrine-diseases/acromegaly
      * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/acromegaly

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Pituitary surgery is successful in most people, depending on the size of the
tumor and the experience of the neurosurgeon with pituitary tumors.

Without treatment, the symptoms will get worse. Conditions such as high blood
pressure, diabetes, and heart disease may result.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You have symptoms of acromegaly
      * Your symptoms do not improve with treatment

## Prevention

Acromegaly cannot be prevented. Early treatment may prevent the disease from
getting worse andÂ help avoid complications.

## Alternative Names

Somatotroph adenoma; Growth hormone excess; Growth hormone secreting pituitary
adenoma; Pituitary giant (in childhood)

## Images

      * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands

## References

Katznelson L, Laws ER Jr, Melmed S, et al. Acromegaly: an endocrine society
clinical practice guideline. _J Clin Endocrinol Metab_. 2014;99(11):3933-3951.
PMID: 25356808 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25356808.

Klein I. Endocrine disorders and cardiovascular disease. In: Mann DL, Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A
Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine._ 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 81.

Melmed S. Acromegaly. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds.
_Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 12.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Growth
Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GrowthDisorders_thumb.jpg)Growth
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

