Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003271.htm    
                                Description: A child who has short stature is much shorter than children who are the same age and sex.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Short stature

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003271.htm

# Short stature

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A child who has short stature is much shorter than children who are the same
age and sex.

Your health care provider will go over your child's growth chart with you. A
child with short stature's height is:

      * Two standard deviations (SD) or more below the average height for children of the same sex and age.
      * Below the 2.3rd percentile on the growth chart: Out of 1,000 boys (or girls) who were born on the same day, 977 of the children are taller than your son or daughter. 

## Considerations

Your child's provider checks how your child is growing at regular checkups.
The provider will:

      * Record your child's height and weight on a growth chart.
      * Monitor your child's growth rate over time. Ask the provider what percentile your child is for height and weight.
      * Compare your child's height and weight to other children of the same age and sex.
      * Talk with you if you are worried that your child is shorter than other children. If your child has short stature, this does not necessarily mean that something is wrong. 

## Causes

There are many reasons why your child has short stature.

Most of the time, there is no medical cause for short stature.

      * Your child may be small for her age, but is growing OK. She will probably start puberty later than her friends. Your child will most likely keep growing after most of her peers have stopped growing, and will probably be as tall as her parents. Providers call this "constitutional growth delay."
      * If one or both parents are short, your child will most likely also be short. Your child should get as tall as one of her parents.

Sometimes, short stature may be a symptom of a medical condition.

Bone or skeletal disorders, such as:

      * Rickets
      * Achondroplasia

Long-term (chronic) diseases, such as:

      * Asthma
      * Celiac disease
      * Congenital heart disease
      * Cushing disease
      * Diabetes
      * Hypothyroidism
      * Inflammatory bowel disease
      * Juvenile rheumatoid arthritis
      * Kidney disease
      * Sickle cell anemia
      * Thalassemia

Genetic conditions, such as:

      * Down syndrome
      * Noonan syndrome
      * Russell-Silver syndrome
      * Turner syndrome
      * Williams syndrome

Other reasons include:

      * Growth hormone deficiency
      * Infections of the developing baby before birth
      * Malnutrition
      * Poor growth of a baby while in the womb (intrauterine growth restriction) or small for gestational age

This list does not include every possible cause of short stature.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child appears to be much shorter than most children
their age, or if they seem to have stopped growing.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam. The provider will measure your
child's height, weight, and arm and leg lengths.

To figure out possible causes of your child's short stature, the provider will
ask about your child's history.

If your child's short stature may be due to a medical condition, your child
will need lab tests and x-rays.

Bone age x-rays are most often taken of the left wrist or hand. The provider
looks at the x-ray to see if the size and shape of your child's bones have
grown normally. If the bones have not grown as expected for your child's age,
the provider will talk more about why your child may not be growing normally.

Your child may have other tests if another medical condition may be involved,
including:

      * Complete blood count
      * Growth hormone stimulation
      * Thyroid function tests
      * Insulin growth factor-1 (IGF-1) level
      * Blood tests to look for liver, kidney, thyroid, immune system, and other medical problems

Your provider keeps records of your child's height and weight. Keep your own
records, too. Bring these records to your provider's attention if the growth
seems slow or your child seems small.

TREATMENT

Your child's short stature may affect their self-esteem.

      * Check in with your child about relationships with friends and classmates. Kids tease each other about many things, including height.
      * Give your child emotional support.
      * Help family, friends, and teachers emphasize your child's skills and strengths.

TREATMENT WITH GROWTH HORMONE INJECTIONS

If your child has no or low levels of growth hormone, your provider may talk
about treatment with growth hormone injections.

Most children have normal growth hormone levels and will not need growth
hormone injections. If your child is a boy with short stature and delayed
puberty, your provider may talk about using testosterone injections to jump-
start growth. But this is not likely to increase adult height.

## Alternative Names

Idiopathic short stature; Non-growth hormone deficient short stature

## Images

      * ![Height/weight chart](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17213t.jpg)Height/weight chart

## References

Cooke DW, DiVall SA, Radovick S. Normal and aberrant growth in children. In:
Melmed S, Auchus RJ, Goldfine AB, Koenig RJ, Rosen CJ, eds. _Williams Textbook
of Endocrinology_. 14th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 25.

Cuttler L, Misra M, Koontz M. Somatic growth and maturation. In: Jameson JL,
De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 22.

Escobar O, Viswanathan P, Witchel SF. Pediatric endocrinology. In: Zitelli BJ,
McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical
Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 9.

Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM. Short stature. In: Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM, eds.
_Nelson Essentials of Pediatrics_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 173.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Growth
Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GrowthDisorders_thumb.jpg)Growth
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

