Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003021.htm    
                                Description: Delayed growth is poor or abnormally slow height or weight gains in a child younger than age 5. This may just be normal, and the child may outgrow it.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Delayed growth

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003021.htm

# Delayed growth

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Delayed growth is poor or abnormally slow height or weight gains in a child
younger than age 5. This may just be normal, and the child may outgrow it.

## Considerations

A child should have regular, well-baby check-ups with a health care provider.
These checkups are usually scheduled at the following times:

      * 2 to 4 weeks
      * 2Â½ years
      * Annually thereafter 

Related topics include:

      * Developmental milestones record - 2 months
      * Developmental milestones record - 4 months
      * Developmental milestones record - 6 months
      * Developmental milestones record - 9 months
      * Developmental milestones record - 12 months
      * Developmental milestones record - 18 months
      * Developmental milestones record - 2 years
      * Developmental milestones record - 3 years
      * Developmental milestones record - 4 years
      * Developmental milestones record - 5 years

## Causes

Constitutional growth delay refers to children who are small for their age but
are growing at a normal rate. Puberty is often late in these children.

These children continue to grow after most of their peers have stopped. Most
of the time, they will reach an adult height similar to their parents' height.
However, other causes of growth delay must be ruled out.

Genetics may also play a role. One or both parents may be short. Short but
healthy parents may have a healthy child who is in the shortest 5% for their
age. These children are short, but they should reach the height of one or both
of their parents.

Delayed or slower-than-expected growth can be caused by many different things,
including:

      * Chronic disease
      * Endocrine disorders
      * Emotional health
      * Infection
      * Poor nutrition 

Many children with delayed growth also have delays in development.

## Home Care

If slow weight gain is due to a lack of calories, try feeding the child on
demand. Increase the amount of food offered to the child. Offer nutritional,
high-calorie foods.

It is very important to prepare formula exactly according to directions. DO
NOT water down (dilute) ready-to-feed formula.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if you are concerned about your child's growth. Medical
evaluations are important even if you think developmental delays or emotional
issues may be contributing to a child's delayed growth.

If your child is not growing due to a lack of calories, your provider can
refer you to a nutrition expert who can help you choose the right foods to
offer your child.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will examine the child and measure height, weight, and head
circumference. The parent or caregiver will be asked questions about the
child's medical history, including:

      * Has the child always been on the low end of the growth charts?
      * Did the child's growth start out normal and then slow down?
      * Is the child developing normal social skills and physical skills?
      * Does the child eat well? What kinds of foods does the child eat?
      * What type of feeding schedule is used?
      * Is the infant fed by breast or bottle?
      * If the baby is breast fed, what medicines does the mother take?
      * If bottle-fed, what kind of formula is used? How is the formula mixed?
      * What medicines or supplements does the child take?
      * How tall are the child's biological parents? How much do they weigh?
      * What other symptoms are present? 

The provider may also ask questions about parenting habits and the child's
social interactions.

Tests may include:

      * Blood tests (such as a CBC or blood differential)
      * Stool studies (to check for poor nutrient absorption)
      * Urine tests
      * X-rays to determine bone age and to look for fractures 

## Alternative Names

Growth - slow (child 0 to 5 years); Weight gain - slow (child 0 to 5 years);
Slow rate of growth; Retarded growth and development; Growth delay

## Images

      * ![Toddler development](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9976t.jpg)Toddler development

## References

Cooke DW, Divall SA, Radovick S. Normal and aberrant growth in children. In:
Melmed S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 24.

Kimmel SR, Ratliff-Schaub K. Growth and development. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 22.

Lo L, Ballantine A. Malnutrition. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah
SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 59.

## Review Date 3/6/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Growth
Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GrowthDisorders_thumb.jpg)Growth
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

