Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001186.htm    
                                Description: Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome is a growth disorder that causes large body size, large organs, and other symptoms. It is a congenital condition, which means it is present at birth. The signs and symptoms    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001186.htm

# Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome is a growth disorder that causes large body size,
large organs, and other symptoms. It is a congenital condition, which means it
is present at birth. The signs and symptoms of the disorder vary somewhat from
child to child.

Infancy can be a critical period in babies with this condition because of the
possibility of:

      * Low blood sugar
      * A type of hernia called an omphalocele (when present)
      * An enlarged tongue (macroglossia)
      * An increased rate of tumor growth. Wilms tumors and hepatoblastomas are the most common tumors in children with this syndrome. 

## Causes

Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome is caused by a defect in the genes on chromosome
11\. About 10% of cases can be passed down through families.

## Symptoms

Signs and symptoms of Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome include:

      * Large size for a newborn
      * Red birth mark on forehead or eyelids (nevus flammeus)
      * Creases in ear lobes
      * Large tongue (macroglossia)
      * Low blood sugar
      * Abdominal wall defect (umbilical hernia or omphalocele)
      * Enlargement of some organs
      * Overgrowth of one side of the body (hemihyperplasia/hemihypertrophy)
      * Tumor growth, such as Wilms tumors and hepatoblastomas

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will do a physical exam to look for signs and
symptoms of Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome. Often this is enough to make a
diagnosis.

Tests for the disorder include:

      * Blood tests for low blood sugar
      * Chromosomal studies for abnormalities in chromosome 11
      * Ultrasound of the abdomen

## Treatment

Infants with low blood sugar may be treated with fluids given through a vein
(intravenous, IV). Some infants may need medicine or other management if low
blood sugar continues.

Defects in the abdominal wall may need to be repaired. If the enlarged tongue
makes it hard to breathe or eat, surgery may be needed. Children with
overgrowth on one side of the body should be watched for a curved spine
(scoliosis). The child also must be watched closely for the development of
tumors. Tumor screening includes blood tests and abdominal ultrasounds.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Children with Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome typically lead normal lives. Further
study is needed to develop long-term follow-up information.

## Possible Complications

These complications can occur:

      * Development of tumors
      * Feeding problems due to enlarged tongue
      * Breathing problems due to enlarged tongue
      * Scoliosis due to hemihypertrophy 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you have a child with Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome and worrisome symptoms
develop, call your pediatrician right away.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention for Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome. Genetic
counseling may be of value for families who would like to have more children.

## Images

      * ![Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17076t.jpg)Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome

## References

Devaskar SU, Garg M. Disorders of carbohydrate metabolism in the neonate. In:
Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-
Perinatal Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap
95.

Madan-Khetarpal S, Arnold G. Genetic disorders and dysmorphic conditions. In:
Zitelli, BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of
Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
1.

Sperling MA. Hypoglycemia. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 111.

## Review Date 4/4/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Childrenâs Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Growth
Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GrowthDisorders_thumb.jpg)Growth
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

