Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000285.htm    
                                Description: While you were in the hospital, you had a vaginal hysterectomy. Your surgeon made a cut in your vagina. Your uterus was removed through this cut.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hysterectomy - vaginal - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000285.htm

# Hysterectomy - vaginal - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

While you were in the hospital, you had a vaginal hysterectomy. Your surgeon
made a cut in your vagina. Your uterus was removed through this cut.

Your surgeon may have also used a laparoscope (a thin tube with a small camera
on it) and other instruments that were inserted into your belly through
several small incisions.

Part or all of your uterus was removed. Your fallopian tubes or ovaries may
have also been removed. You may go home on the same day as surgery, or you may
spend 1 to 2 nights in the hospital.

## What to Expect at Home

It will take at least 3 to 6 weeks to feel better. You will have the most
discomfort during the first 2 weeks. Most women will need to use pain medicine
regularly and limit their activities during the first 2 weeks. After this
period, you may feel tired but will not have much pain. You may not feel like
eating much.

You will not have any scars on your skin unless your doctor used a laparoscope
and other instruments that were inserted through your belly. In that case, you
will have 2 to 4 scars less than 1-inch (3 cm) long.

You will likely have light spotting for 2 to 4 weeks. It may be pink, red, or
brownish. It should not have a bad odor.

If you had good sexual function before the surgery, you should continue to
have good sexual function afterward. If you had problems with severe bleeding
before your hysterectomy, sexual function often improves after surgery. If you
have a decrease in your sexual function after your hysterectomy, talk with
your health care provider about possible causes and treatments.

## Self-care

Slowly increase how much activity you do every day. Take short walks and
increase how far you go gradually. DO NOT jog, do sit-ups, or other sports
until you have checked with your provider.

DO NOT lift anything heavier than a gallon (3.8 L) jug of milk for a few weeks
after surgery. DO NOT drive for the first 2 weeks.

DO NOT put anything into your vagina for the first 8 to 12 weeks. This
includes douching or using tampons.

DO NOT start having sexual intercourse for at least 8 weeks, and only after
your provider says it is OK. If you had vaginal repairs along with your
hysterectomy, you may need to wait 12 weeks for intercourse. Check with your
provider.

If your surgeon also used a laparoscope:

      * You may remove the wound dressings and take a shower the day after surgery if sutures (stitches), staples, or glue were used to close your skin.
      * Cover your wounds with plastic wrap before showering for the first week if tape strips (Steri-Strips) were used to close your skin. DO NOT try to wash the Steri-Strips off. They should fall off in about a week. If they are still in place after 10 days, remove them unless your doctor tells you not to.
      * DO NOT soak in a bathtub or hot tub, or go swimming, until your doctor tells you it is OK. 

Try eating smaller meals than normal and have healthy snacks in between. Eat
plenty of fruits and vegetables and drink 8 cups (2 L) of water a day to keep
from getting constipated

To manage your pain:

      * Your provider will prescribe pain medicines to use at home.
      * If you are taking pain pills 3 or 4 times a day, try taking them at the same times each day for 3 to 4 days. They may work better to relieve the pain this way.
      * Try getting up and moving around if you are having some pain in your belly. This may ease your pain. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

      * You have a fever above 100.5Â°F (38Â°C).
      * Your surgical wound is bleeding, is red and warm to touch, or has thick, yellow, or green drainage.
      * Your pain medicine is not helping your pain.
      * It is hard to breathe.
      * You have a cough that does not go away.
      * You cannot drink or eat.
      * You have nausea or vomiting.
      * You are unable to pass gas or have a bowel movement.
      * You have pain or burning when you urinate, or you are unable to urinate.
      * You have a discharge from your vagina that has a bad odor.
      * You have bleeding from the vagina that is heavier than light spotting.
      * You have swelling or redness in one of your legs.

## Alternative Names

Vaginal hysterectomy - discharge; Laparoscopically assisted vaginal
hysterectomy - discharge; LAVH - discharge

## Images

      * ![Hysterectomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17073t.jpg)Hysterectomy

## References

Gambone JC. Gynecologic procedures: imaging studies and surgery. In: Hacker
NF, Gambone JC, Hobel CJ, eds. _Hacker & Moore's Essentials of Obstetrics and
Gynecology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 31.

Jones HW. Gynecologic surgery. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM,
Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 70.

## Read More

      * Cervical cancer
      * Endometrial cancer
      * Endometriosis
      * Hysterectomy
      * Uterine fibroids

## Patient Instructions

      * Hysterectomy - abdominal - discharge
      * Hysterectomy - laparoscopic - discharge

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Hysterectomy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

