Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000276.htm    
                                Description: You were in the hospital to have surgery to remove your uterus. The fallopian tubes and ovaries may also have been removed. A laparoscope (a thin tube with a small camera on it) inserted through small    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hysterectomy - laparoscopic - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000276.htm

# Hysterectomy - laparoscopic - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You were in the hospital to have surgery to remove your uterus. The fallopian
tubes and ovaries may also have been removed. A laparoscope (a thin tube with
a small camera on it) inserted through small cuts in your belly was used for
the operation.

## When You're in the Hospital

While you were in the hospital, you had surgery to remove your uterus. This is
called a hysterectomy. The surgeon made 3 to 5 small cuts in your belly. A
laparoscope (a thin tube with a small camera on it) and other small surgical
tools were inserted through those incisions.

Part or all of your uterus was removed. Your fallopian tubes or ovaries may
have also been taken out.

You probably spent 1 day in the hospital.

![Hysterectomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17073.jpg)

## What to Expect at Home

It may take at least 4 to 6 weeks for you to feel completely better after your
surgery. The first two weeks are most often the hardest. You may need to take
pain medicine regularly.

Most people are able to stop taking pain medicine and increase their activity
level after two weeks. Most people are able to perform more normal activities
at this point, after two weeks such as desk work, office work, and light
walking. In most cases, it takes 6 to 8 weeks for energy levels to return to
normal.

If you had good sexual function before the surgery, you should continue to
have good sexual function after you have completely healed. If you had
problems with severe bleeding before your hysterectomy, sexual function often
improves after surgery. If you have a decrease in your sexual function after
your hysterectomy, talk with your health care provider about possible causes
and treatments.

## Activity

Start walking after surgery. Begin your everyday activities as soon as you
feel up to it. DO NOT jog, do sit-ups, or play sports until you have checked
with your provider.

Move around the house, shower, and use the stairs at home during the first
week. If it hurts when you do something, stop doing that activity.

Ask your provider about driving. You may be able to drive after 2 or 3 days if
you are not taking narcotic pain drugs.

You may lift 10 pounds or 4.5 kilograms (about the weight of a gallon or 4
liters of milk) or less. DO NOT do any heavy lifting or straining for the
first 3 weeks. You may be able to go back to a desk job within a couple of
weeks. But, you may still get tired more easily at this time.

DO NOT put anything into your vagina for the first 8 to 12 weeks. This
includes douching and tampons.

DO NOT have sexual intercourse for at least 12 weeks, and only after your
provider says it is ok. Resuming intercourse sooner than that could lead to
complications.

## Wound Care

If sutures (stitches), staples, or glue were used to close your skin, you may
remove your wound dressings (bandages) and take a shower the day after
surgery.

If tape strips were used to close your skin, they should fall off on their own
in about a week. If they are still in place after 10 days, remove them unless
your doctor tells you not to.

DO NOT go swimming or soak in a bathtub or hot tub until your provider tells
you it is ok.

## Self-care

Try eating smaller meals than normal. Eat healthy snacks in between meals. Eat
plenty of fruits and vegetables and drink at least 8 cups (2 liters) of water
a day to keep from getting constipated.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

      * You have a fever above 100.5Â°F (38Â°C).
      * Your surgical wound is bleeding, is red and warm to touch, or has thick, yellow, or green drainage.
      * Your pain medicine is not helping your pain.
      * It is hard to breathe.
      * You have a cough that does not go away.
      * You cannot drink or eat.
      * You have nausea or vomiting.
      * You are unable to pass any gas or have a bowel movement.
      * You have pain or burning when you urinate, or you are unable to urinate.
      * You have a discharge from your vagina that has a bad odor.
      * You have bleeding from your vagina that is heavier than light spotting.
      * You have a heavy, watery discharge from the vagina.
      * You have swelling or redness in one of your legs. 

## Alternative Names

Supracervical hysterectomy - discharge; Removal of the uterus - discharge;
Laparoscopic hysterectomy - discharge; Total laparoscopic hysterectomy -
discharge; TLH - discharge; Laparoscopic supracervical hysterectomy -
discharge; Robotic assisted laparoscopic hysterectomy - discharge

## Images

      * ![Hysterectomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17073t.jpg)Hysterectomy

## References

American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology. Frequently asked questions,
FAQ008, special procedures: hysterectomy.
www.acog.org/Patients/FAQs/Hysterectomy. Updated October 2018. Accessed March
28, 2019.

Carlson SM, Goldberg J, Lentz GM. Endoscopy: hysteroscopy and laparoscopy:
indications, contraindications and complications. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM,
Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 10.

Jones HW. Gynecologic surgery. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM,
Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 70.

## Read More

      * Cervical cancer
      * Endometrial cancer
      * Endometriosis
      * Hysterectomy
      * Uterine fibroids

## Patient Instructions

      * Hysterectomy - abdominal - discharge
      * Hysterectomy - vaginal - discharge 

## Review Date 12/30/2018

Updated by: LaQuita Martinez, MD, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology,
Emory Johns Creek Hospital, Alpharetta, GA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD,
MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Hysterectomy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

