Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002915.htm    
                                Description: Hysterectomy is surgery to remove a woman    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hysterectomy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002915.htm

# Hysterectomy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hysterectomy is surgery to remove a woman's womb (uterus). The uterus is a
hollow muscular organ that nourishes the developing baby during pregnancy.

## Description

You may have all or part of the uterus removed during a hysterectomy. The
fallopian tubes and ovaries may also be removed.

There are many different ways to perform a hysterectomy. It may be done
through:

      * A surgical cut in the belly (called open or abdominal)
      * Three to four small surgical cuts in the belly and then using a laparoscope
      * A surgical cut in the vagina, aided by the use of a laparoscope
      * A surgical cut in the vagina without the use of a laparoscope
      * Three to four small surgical cuts in the belly, in order to perform robotic surgery 

You and your doctor will decide which type of procedure. The choice will
depend on your medical history and the reason for the surgery.

![Hysterectomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17073.jpg)

## Why the Procedure is Performed

There are many reasons a woman may need a hysterectomy, including:

      * Adenomyosis, a condition that causes heavy, painful periods
      * Cancer of the uterus, most often endometrial cancer
      * Cancer of the cervix or changes in the cervix called cervical dysplasia that may lead to cancer
      * Cancer of the ovary
      * Long-term (chronic) pelvic pain
      * Severe endometriosis that does not get better with other treatments
      * Severe, long-term vaginal bleeding that is not controlled with other treatments
      * Slipping of the uterus into the vagina (uterine prolapse)
      * Tumors in the uterus, such as uterine fibroids
      * Uncontrolled bleeding during childbirth 

Hysterectomy is a major surgery. Some conditions can be treated with less
invasive procedures such as:

      * Uterine artery embolization
      * Endometrial ablation
      * Using birth control pills
      * Using pain medicines
      * Using an IUD (intrauterine device) that releases the hormone progestin
      * Pelvic laparoscopy
![Pelvic laparoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1109.jpg)

## Risks

Risks of any surgery are:

      * Allergic reactions to medicines
      * Breathing problems
      * Blood clots, which may cause death if they travel to the lungs
      * Bleeding
      * Infection
      * Injury to nearby body areas 

Risks of a hysterectomy are:

      * Injury to the bladder or ureters
      * Pain during sexual intercourse
      * Change in pleasure associated with sexual activity
      * Early menopause if the ovaries are removed
      * Decreased interest in sex
      * Increased risk of heart disease if the ovaries are removed before menopause

## Before the Procedure

Before deciding to have a hysterectomy, ask your health care provider what to
expect after the procedure. Many women notice changes in their body and in how
they feel about themselves after a hysterectomy. Talk with provider, family,
and friends about these possible changes before you have surgery.

Tell your health care team about all the medicines you are taking. These
include herbs, supplements, and other medicines you bought without a
prescription.

During the days before the surgery:

      * You may be asked to stop taking aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), clopidogrel (Plavix), warfarin (Coumadin), and any other drugs like these.
      * Ask your provider which drugs you should still take on the day of your surgery.
      * If you smoke, try to stop. Ask your provider for help quitting.

On the day of your surgery:

      * You will most often be asked not to drink or eat anything for 8 hours before the surgery.
      * Take any medicines your provider told you to take with a small sip of water.
      * Arrive at the hospital on time.

## After the Procedure

After surgery, you will be given pain medicines.

You may also have a tube, called a catheter, inserted into your bladder to
pass urine. Most of the time, the catheter is removed before leaving the
hospital.

You will be asked to get up and move around as soon as possible after surgery.
This helps prevent blood clots from forming in your legs and speeds recovery.

You will be asked to get up to use the bathroom as soon as you are able. You
may return to a normal diet as soon as you can without causing nausea and
vomiting.

How long you stay in the hospital depends on the type of hysterectomy.

      * You can likely go home the next day when surgery is done through the vagina, with a laparoscope, or after robotic surgery.
      * When a larger surgical cut (incision) in the abdomen is made, you may need to stay in the hospital for 1 to 2 days. You may need to stay longer if the hysterectomy is done because of cancer. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How long it takes you to recover depends on the type of hysterectomy. Average
recovery times are:

      * Abdominal hysterectomy: 4 to 6 weeks
      * Vaginal hysterectomy: 3 to 4 weeks
      * Robot-assisted or total laparoscopic hysterectomy: 2 to 4 weeks 

A hysterectomy will cause menopause if you also have your ovaries removed.
Removal of the ovaries can also lead to a decreased sex drive. Your doctor may
recommend estrogen replacement therapy. Discuss with your provider the risks
and benefits of this therapy.

If the hysterectomy was done for cancer, you may need further treatment.

## Alternative Names

Vaginal hysterectomy; Abdominal hysterectomy; Supracervical hysterectomy;
Radical hysterectomy; Removal of the uterus; Laparoscopic hysterectomy;
Laparoscopically assisted vaginal hysterectomy; LAVH; Total laparoscopic
hysterectomy; TLH; Laparoscopic supracervical hysterectomy; Robotically
assisted hysterectomy

## Patient Instructions

      * Hysterectomy - abdominal - discharge
      * Hysterectomy - laparoscopic - discharge
      * Hysterectomy - vaginal - discharge 
      * Surgical wound care - open
      * Uterine artery embolization - discharge 

## Images

      * ![Pelvic laparoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1109t.jpg)Pelvic laparoscopy
      * ![Hysterectomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17073t.jpg)Hysterectomy
      * ![Uterus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19263t.jpg)Uterus
      * ![Hysterectomy - Series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7130t.jpg)Hysterectomy - Series

## References

Committee on Gynecologic Practice. Committee opinion no 701: choosing the
route of hysterectomy for benign disease. _Obstet Gynecol_.
2017;129(6):e155-e159. PMID: 28538495 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28538495.

Jones HW. Gynecologic surgery. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM,
Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2017:chap 70.

Karram MM. Vaginal hysterectomy. In: Baggish MS, Karram MM, eds. _Atlas of
Pelvic Anatomy and Gynecologic Surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 53.

Thakar R. Is the uterus a sexual organ? Sexual function following
hysterectomy. _Sex Med Rev_. 2015;3(4):264-278. PMID: 27784599
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27784599.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hysterectomy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hysterectomy_thumb.jpg)Hysterectomy
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

