Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002406.htm    
                                Description: Vitamin E is a fat-soluble vitamin.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vitamin E

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002406.htm

# Vitamin E

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Vitamin E is a fat-soluble vitamin.

## Function

Vitamin E has the following functions:

      * It is an antioxidant. This means it protects body tissue from damage caused by substances called free radicals. Free radicals can harm cells, tissues, and organs. They are believed to play a role in certain conditions related to aging.
      * The body also needs vitamin E to help keep the immune system strong against viruses and bacteria. Vitamin E is also important in the formation of red blood cells. It helps the body use vitamin K. It also helps widen blood vessels and keep blood from clotting inside them.
      * Cells use vitamin E to interact with each other. It helps them carry out many important functions.

Whether vitamin E can prevent cancer, heart disease, dementia, liver disease,
and stroke still requires further research.

## Food Sources

The best way to get the daily requirement of vitamin E is by eating food
sources. Vitamin E is found in the following foods:

      * Vegetable oils (such as wheat germ, sunflower, safflower, corn, and soybean oils)
      * Nuts (such as almonds, peanuts, and hazelnuts/filberts)
      * Seeds (such as sunflower seeds)
      * Green leafy vegetables (such as spinach and broccoli)
      * Fortified breakfast cereals, fruit juices, margarine, and spreads.

Fortified means that vitamins have been added to the food. Check the Nutrition
Fact Panel on the food label.

Products made from these foods, such as margarine, also contain vitamin E.

## Side Effects

Eating vitamin E in foods is not risky or harmful. However, high doses of
vitamin E supplements (alpha-tocopherol supplements) might increase the risk
of bleeding in the brain (hemorrhagic stroke).

High levels of vitamin E may also increase the risk for birth defects.
However, it needs more research.

Low intake may lead to hemolytic anemiaÂ in premature babies.

## Recommendations

The Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) for vitamins reflect how much of each
vitamin most people should get each day.

      * The RDA for vitamins may be used as goals for each person.
      * How much of each vitamin you need depends on your age and gender.
      * Other factors, such as pregnancy, breastfeeding, and illnesses may increase the amount you need.

The Food and Nutrition Board at the Institute of Medicine Recommended Intakes
for individuals for vitamin E:

Infants (adequate intake of vitamin E)

      * 0 to 6 months: 4 mg/day
      * 7 to 12 months: 5 mg/day

Children

      * 1 to 3 years: 6 mg/day
      * 4 to 8 years: 7 mg/day
      * 9 to 13 years: 11 mg/day

Adolescents and adults

      * 14 and older: 15 mg/day
      * Pregnant teens and women: 15 mg/day
      * Breastfeeding teens and women: 19 mg/day

Ask your health care provider which amount is best for you.

The highest safe level of vitamin E supplements for adults is 1,500 IU/day for
natural forms of vitamin E, and 1,000 IU/day for the man-made (synthetic)
form.

## Alternative Names

Alpha-tocopherol; Gamma-tocopherol

## Images

      * ![Vitamin E benefit](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18113t.jpg)Vitamin E benefit
      * ![Vitamin E source](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18114t.jpg)Vitamin E source
      * ![Vitamin E and heart disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9385t.jpg)Vitamin E and heart disease

## References

Mason JB. Vitamins, trace minerals, and other micronutrients. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 218.

Salwen MJ. Vitamins and trace elements. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 26.

## Review Date 2/2/2019

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CNSC, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Vitamin E](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VitaminE_thumb.jpg)Vitamin E _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

