Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000769.htm    
                                Description: Good oral health starts at a very young age. Taking care of your child    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Brushing Your Child's Teeth

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000769.htm

# Brushing Your Child's Teeth

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Good oral health starts at a very young age. Taking care of your child's gums
and teeth every day helps prevent tooth decay and gum disease. It also helps
make it a regular habit for your child.

Learn how to care for your children's teeth and gums starting when they are
newborn. When children get old enough, teach them how to brush their teeth on
their own.

## Tooth and Gum Care for Young Children

You should start caring for your child's mouth when they are just a few days
old.

      * Gently wipe your baby's gums using a clean, damp washcloth or gauze pad.
      * Clean your baby's mouth after every feeding and before bed. 

Your baby's teeth will start to come in between ages 6 to 14 months. Baby
teeth can decay, so you should start cleaning them as soon as they appear.

      * Gently brush your child's teeth with a soft, child-sized toothbrush and water.
      * DO NOT use fluoride toothpaste until your child is over 2 years old. Your child needs to be able to spit out the toothpaste rather than swallowing it.
      * For children under age 3, use just a small amount of toothpaste the size of a grain of rice. For older children, use a pea-sized amount.
      * Brush your child's teeth after breakfast and before bed.
      * Brush in tiny circles on the gums and on the teeth. Brush for 2 minutes. Focus on the back molars, which are most at risk for cavities.
      * Use floss to clean between the teeth once a day. Start flossing as soon as there are 2 teeth that touch. Floss sticks may be easier to use.
      * Change to a new toothbrush every 3 to 4 months. 

## Teach Children To Brush and Floss

Teach your children to brush their teeth.

      * Start by being a role model and show your children how you floss and brush your teeth every day.
      * Children under age 6 may be able to handle a toothbrush on their own. If they want to, it is fine to let them practice. Just be sure you follow up and brush any spots they missed.
      * Show children to brush the top, bottom, and sides of teeth. Use short, back-and-forth strokes.
      * Teach children to brush their tongue to keep breath fresh and remove germs.
      * Most children can brush their teeth on their own by the age of 7 or 8 years. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Make an appointment for your baby to see a dentist when you see a first tooth
or by age 1 year. Your child's dentist can show you other ways to help prevent
tooth decay.

## References

American Dental Association website. Mouth Healthy. Healthy habits.
www.mouthhealthy.org/en/babies-and-kids/healthy-habits. Accessed May 28, 2019.

Dhar V. Dental caries. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker
RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 338.

Hughes CV, Dean JA. Mechanical and chemotherapeutic home oral hygiene. In:
Dean JA, ed. _McDonald and Avery's Dentistry for the Child and Adolescent_.
10th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2016:chap 7.

Silva DR, Law CS, Duperon DF, Carranza FA. Gingival disease in childhood. In:
Newman MG, Takei HH, Klokkevold PR, Carranza FA, eds. _Newman and Carranza's
Clinical Periodontology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 21.

## Review Date 5/17/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Child Dental Health

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

