Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003268.htm    
                                Description: Natal teeth are teeth that are already present at birth. They are different from neonatal teeth, which grow in during the first 30 days after birth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Natal teeth

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003268.htm

# Natal teeth

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Natal teeth are teeth that are already present at birth. They are different
from neonatal teeth, which grow in during the first 30 days after birth.

## Considerations

Natal teeth are uncommon. They most often develop on the lower gum, where the
central incisor teeth will appear. They have little root structure. They are
attached to the end of the gum by soft tissue and are often wobbly.

Natal teeth are usually not well-formed, but they may cause irritation and
injury to the infant's tongue when nursing. Natal teeth may also be
uncomfortable for a nursing mother.

Natal teeth are often removed shortly after birth while the newborn infant is
still in the hospital. This is done very often if the tooth is loose and the
child runs a risk of "breathing in" the tooth.

## Causes

Most of the time, natal teeth are not related to a medical condition. However,
sometimes they may be associated with:

      * Ellis-van Creveld syndrome
      * Hallermann-Streiff syndrome
      * Pierre-Robin syndrome
      * Soto syndrome

## Home Care

Clean the natal teeth by gently wiping the gums and teeth with a clean, damp
cloth. Examine the infant's gums and tongue often to make sure the teeth are
not causing injury.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if an infant with natal teeth develops a sore
tongue or mouth, or other symptoms.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Natal teeth are most often discovered by the provider shortly after birth.

Dental x-rays may be done in some cases. If there are signs of another
condition that may be linked with natal teeth, exams and testing for that
condition may need to be done.

## Alternative Names

Fetal teeth; Congenital teeth; Predeciduous teeth; Precocious teeth

## Images

      * ![Development of baby teeth](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1138t.jpg)Development of baby teeth

## References

Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW. Ear, nose, and throat.
In: Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW, eds. _Seidel's Guide
to Physical Examination_. 8th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Mosby; 2015:chap 12.

Dean JA, Turner EG. Eruption of the teeth: local, systemic, and congenital
factors that influence the process. In: Dean JA, ed. _McDonald and Avery's
Dentistry for the Child and Adolescent_. 10th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier;
2016:chap 19.

Tinanoff N, Development and developmental anomalies of the teeth. In: Kliegman
RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 307.

## Review Date 2/5/2018

Updated by: Ilona Fotek, DMD, MS, Dental Healing Arts, Jupiter, FL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Child Dental
Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildDentalHealth_thumb.jpg)Child
Dental Health _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

