Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002213.htm    
                                Description: Proper care of your child    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dental care - child

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002213.htm

# Dental care - child

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Proper care of your child's teeth and gums includes brushing and rinsing
daily. It also includes having routine dental exams, and getting necessary
treatments such as fluoride, extractions, fillings, or braces and other
orthodontics.

## Information

Your child must have healthy teeth and gums for overall good health. Injured,
diseased, or poorly developed teeth can result in:

      * Poor nutrition
      * Painful and dangerous infections
      * Problems with speech development
      * Problems with facial and jaw bone development
      * Poor self-image 
      * Bad bite

CARING FOR AN INFANT'S TEETH

Even though newborns and infants do not have teeth, it is important to take
care of their mouth and gums. Follow these tips:

      * Use a damp washcloth to wipe your infant's gums after each meal.
      * DO NOT put your infant or young child to bed with a bottle of milk, juice, or sugar water. Use only water for bedtime bottles.
      * Begin using a soft toothbrush instead of a washcloth to clean your child's teeth as soon as their first tooth shows (usually between 5 and 8 months of age).
      * Ask your child's health care provider if your infant needs to take oral fluoride. 

THE FIRST TRIP TO THE DENTIST

      * Your child's first visit to the dentist should be between the time the first tooth appears and the time when all the primary teeth are visible (before 2 1/2 years).
      * Many dentists recommend a "trial" visit. This can help your child get used to the sights, sounds, smells, and feel of the office before their actual exam.
      * Children who are used to having their gums wiped and teeth brushed every day will be more comfortable going to the dentist. 

CARING FOR A CHILD'S TEETH

      * Brush your child's teeth and gums at least twice each day and especially before bed.
      * Let children brush on their own to learn the habit of brushing, but you should do the real brushing for them.
      * Take your child to a dentist every 6 months. Let the dentist know if your child thumb sucks or breathes through the mouth.
      * Teach your child how to play safe and what to do if a tooth is broken or knocked out. If you act quickly, you can often save the tooth.
      * When your child has teeth, they should begin flossing each evening before going to bed.
      * Your child may need orthodontic treatment to prevent long-term problems.

## Images

      * ![Teach children to brush](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19650t.jpg)Teach children to brush
      * ![Infant dental care](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9091t.jpg)Infant dental care

## References

Hughes CV, Dean JA. Mechanical and chemotherapeutic home oral hygiene. In:
Dean JA, ed. _McDonald and Avery's Dentistry for the Child and Adolescent_.
10th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2016:chap 7.

Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM. Evaluation of the well child. In: Marcdante KJ,
Kliegman RM, eds. _Nelson Essentials of Pediatrics_. 7th ed. Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 9.

Tinanoff N. Dental caries. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF,
eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 312.

## Review Date 2/5/2018

Updated by: Ilona Fotek, DMD, MS, Dental Healing Arts, Jupiter, FL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Child Dental
Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildDentalHealth_thumb.jpg)Child
Dental Health _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

