Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001002.htm    
                                Description: Color blindness is the inability to see some colors in the usual way.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Color blindness

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001002.htm

# Color blindness

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Color blindness is the inability to see some colors in the usual way.

## Causes

Color blindness occurs when there is a problem with the pigments in certain
nerve cells of the eye that sense color. These cells are called cones. They
are found in the light-sensitive layer of tissue at the back of the eye,
called the retina.

If just one pigment is missing, you may have trouble telling the difference
between red and green. This is the most common type of color blindness. If a
different pigment is missing, you may have trouble seeing blue-yellow colors.
People with blue-yellow color blindness often have problems seeing reds and
greens, too.

The most severe form of color blindness is achromatopsia. This is a rare
condition in which a person cannot see any color, only shades of gray.

Most color blindness is due to a genetic problem. About 1 in 10 men have some
form of color blindness. Very few women are color blind.

The drug hydroxychloroquine (Plaquenil) can also cause color blindness. It is
used to treat rheumatoid arthritis and other conditions.

## Symptoms

Symptoms vary from person to person, but may include:

      * Trouble seeing colors and the brightness of colors in the usual way
      * Inability to tell the difference between shades of the same or similar colors 

Often, symptoms are so mild that people may not know they are color blind. A
parent may notice signs of color blindness when a young child is first
learning colors.

Rapid, side-to-side eye movements (nystagmus) and other symptoms may occur in
severe cases.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider or eye specialist can check your color vision in
several ways. Testing for color blindness is a common part of an eye exam.

## Treatment

There is no known treatment. Special contact lenses and glasses may help
people with color blindness tell the difference between similar colors.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Color blindness is a lifelong condition. Most people are able to adjust to it.

## Possible Complications

People who are colorblind may not be able to get a job that requires the
ability to see colors accurately. For example, electricians, painters, and
fashion designers need to be able to see colors accurately.

## Whe to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider or eye specialist if you think you (or your child) may have
color blindness.

## Alternative Names

Color deficiency; Blindness - color

## References

Baldwin AN, Robson AG, Moore AT, Duncan JL. Abnormalities of rod and cone
function. In: Schachat AP, Sadda SVR, Hinton DR, Wilkinson CP, Wiedemann P,
eds. _Ryan's Retina_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 46.

Crouch ER, Crouch ER, Grant TR. Ophthalmology. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 17.

Wiggs JL. Molecular genetics of selected ocular disorders. In: Yanoff M, Duker
JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 1.2.

## Review Date 5/1/2019

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Color
Blindness](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColorBlindness_thumb.jpg)Color
Blindness _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

