Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003387.htm    
                                Description: A color vision test checks your ability to distinguish between different colors.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Color vision test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003387.htm

# Color vision test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A color vision test checks your ability to distinguish between different
colors.

## How the Test is Performed

You will sit in a comfortable position in regular lighting. The health care
provider will explain the test to you.

You will be shown several cards with colored dot patterns. These cards are
called Ishihara plates. In the patterns, some of the dots will appear to form
numbers or symbols. You will be asked to identify the symbols, if possible.

As you cover one eye, the tester will hold the cards 14 inches (35
centimeters) from your face and ask you to quickly identify the symbol found
in each color pattern.

Depending on the problem suspected, you may be asked to determine the
intensity of a color, particularly in one eye compared to the other. This is
often tested by using the cap of a red eyedrop bottle.

## How to Prepare for the Test

If your child is having this test performed, it may be helpful to explain how
the test will feel, and to practice or demonstrate on a doll. Your child will
feel less anxious about the test if you explain what will happen and why.

Usually there is a sample card of multicolored dots that almost everyone can
identify, even people with color vision problems.

If you or your child normally wears glasses, wear them during the test.

Small children may be asked to tell the difference between a red bottle cap
and caps of a different color.

## How the Test will Feel

The test is similar to a vision test.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to determine whether you have any problems with your color
vision.

Color vision problems often fall into two categories:

      * Present from birth (congenital) problems in the light-sensitive cells (cones) of the retina (the light-sensitive layer at the back of the eye) -- the color cards are used in this case.
      * Diseases of the optic nerve (the nerve that carries visual information from the eye to the brain) -- the bottle caps are used in this case. 

## Normal Results

Normally, you will be able to distinguish all colors.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

This test can determine the following congenital (present from birth) color
vision problems:

      * Achromatopsia -- complete color blindness, seeing only shades of gray
      * Deuteranopia -- difficulty telling the difference between red/purple and green/purple
      * Protanopia -- difficulty telling the difference between blue/green and red/green
      * Tritanopia -- difficulty telling the difference between yellow/green and blue/green 

Problems in the optic nerve can show up as a loss of color intensity, although
the color card test may be normal.

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Alternative Names

Eye test - color; Vision test - color; Ishihara color vision test

## Images

      * ![Color blindness tests](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9962t.jpg)Color blindness tests

## References

Bowling B. Hereditary fundus dystrophies. In: Bowling B, ed. _Kanski's
Clinical Ophthalmology_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 15.

Feder RS, Olsen TW, Prum BE Jr, et al. Comprehensive adult medical eye
evaluation preferred practice pattern guidelines. _Ophthalmology_.
2016;123(1):209-236. PMID: 26581558 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26581558.

Wallace DK, Morse CL, Melia M, et al; American Academy of Ophthalmology
Preferred Practice Pattern Pediatric Ophthalmology/Strabismus Panel. Pediatric
eye evaluations Preferred Practice Pattern: I. vision screening in the primary
care and community setting; II. comprehensive ophthalmic examination.
_Ophthalmology_. 2018;125(1):184-227. PMID: 29108745
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29108745.

## Review Date 2/28/2019

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Color
Blindness](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColorBlindness_thumb.jpg)Color
Blindness _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

