Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000255.htm    
                                Description: Cirrhosis is scarring of the liver and poor liver function. It is the last stage of chronic liver disease.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cirrhosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000255.htm

# Cirrhosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cirrhosis is scarring of the liver and poor liver function. It is the last
stage of chronic liver disease.

## Causes

Cirrhosis is the end result of chronic liver damage caused by long-term
(chronic) liver disease. Common causes of chronic liver disease in the United
States are:

      * Hepatitis B or hepatitis C infection.
      * Alcohol abuse.
      * Buildup of fat in the liver that is NOT caused by drinking too much alcohol (called nonalcoholic fatty liver disease [NAFLD] and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis [NASH]). It is closely related to being overweight, having high blood pressure, diabetes or pre-diabetes, and high cholesterol. 

Less common causes of cirrhosis include:

      * When immune cells mistake the liver's normal cells for harmful invaders and attack them.
      * Bile duct disorders.
      * Some medicines.
      * Liver diseases passed down in families. 

## Symptoms

There may be no symptoms, or symptoms may come on slowly, depending on how
well the liver is working. Often, it is discovered by chance when an x-ray is
done for another reason.

Early symptoms include:

      * Fatigue and loss of energy
      * Poor appetite and weight loss
      * Nausea or belly pain
      * Small, red spider-like blood vessels on the skin 

As liver function worsens, symptoms may include:

      * Fluid buildup in the legs (edema) and in the abdomen (ascites)
      * Yellow color in the skin, mucous membranes, or eyes (jaundice)
      * Redness on the palms of the hands
      * In men, impotence, shrinking of the testicles, and breast swelling
      * Easy bruising and abnormal bleeding, most often from swollen veins in the digestive tract
      * Confusion or problems thinking
      * Pale or clay-colored stools
      * Bleeding from upper or lower intestinal tract

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will do a physical exam to look for:

      * An enlarged liver or spleen
      * Excess breast tissue
      * Swollen abdomen, as a result of too much fluid
      * Reddened palms
      * Red spider-like blood vessels on the skin
      * Small testicles
      * Widened veins in the abdomen wall
      * Yellow eyes or skin (jaundice) 

You may have the following tests to measure liver function:

      * Complete blood count
      * Prothrombin time
      * Liver function tests
      * Blood albumin level 

Other tests to check for liver damage include:

      * Computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen
      * Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the abdomen
      * Endoscopy to check for abnormal veins in the esophagus or stomach
      * Ultrasound of the abdomen

You might need a liver biopsy to confirm the diagnosis.

## Treatment

LIFESTYLE CHANGES

Some things you can do to help take care of your liver disease are:

      * Drink no alcohol.
      * Eat a healthy diet that is low in salt, fat, and simple carbohydrates.
      * Get vaccinated for diseases such as influenza, hepatitis A and B, and pneumococcal pneumonia.
      * Talk to your provider about all medicines you take, including herbs and supplements and over-the-counter medicines.
      * Exercise.
      * Control your underlying metabolic problems, such as high blood pressure, diabetes, and high cholesterol.

MEDICINES FROM YOUR DOCTOR

      * Water pills (diuretics) to get rid of fluid build-up
      * Vitamin K or blood products to prevent excess bleeding
      * Medicines for mental confusion
      * Antibiotics for infections 

OTHER TREATMENTS

      * Endoscopic treatments for enlarged veins in the throat (bleeding varices)
      * Removal of fluid from the abdomen (paracentesis)
      * Placement of a transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) to repair blood flow in the liver 

When cirrhosis progresses to end-stage liver disease, a liver transplant may
be needed.

## Support Groups

You can often ease the stress of illness by joining a liver disease support
group whose members share common experiences and problems.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Cirrhosis is caused by scarring of the liver. In most cases, the liver cannot
heal or return to normal function once damage is severe. Cirrhosis can lead to
serious complications.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Bleeding disorders
      * Buildup of fluid in the abdomen (ascites) and infection of the fluid (bacterial peritonitis)
      * Enlarged veins in the esophagus, stomach, or intestines that bleed easily (esophageal varices)
      * Increased pressure in the blood vessels of the liver (portal hypertension)
      * Kidney failure (hepatorenal syndrome)
      * Liver cancer (hepatocellular carcinoma)
      * Mental confusion, change in the level of consciousness, or coma (hepatic encephalopathy) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of cirrhosis.

Get emergency medical help right away if you have:

      * Abdominal or chest pain
      * Abdominal swelling or ascites that is new or suddenly becomes worse
      * A fever (temperature greater than 101Â°F or 38.3Â°C)
      * Diarrhea
      * Confusion or a change in alertness, or it gets worse
      * Rectal bleeding, vomiting blood, or blood in the urine
      * Shortness of breath
      * Vomiting more than once a day
      * Yellowing skin or eyes (jaundice) that is new or gets worse quickly 

## Prevention

DO NOT drink alcohol heavily. Talk to your provider if you are worried about
your drinking. Take steps to prevent getting or passing hepatitis B or C.

## Alternative Names

Liver cirrhosis; Chronic liver disease; End-stage liver disease; Liver failure
- cirrhosis; Ascites - cirrhosis

## Patient Instructions

      * Cirrhosis - discharge

## Images

      * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs
      * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
      * ![Liver cirrhosis - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1176t.jpg)Liver cirrhosis - CT scan

## References

Chalasani N, Younossi Z, Lavine JE, et al. The diagnosis and management of
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: Practice guidance from the American
Association for the Study of Liver Diseases. _Hepatology_. 2018;67(1):328-357.
PMID: 28714183 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28714183.

Garcia-Tsao G. Cirrhosis and its sequelae. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 144.

Kamath PS, Shah VH. Overview of cirrhosis. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt
LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 74.

Singal AK, Bataller R, Ahn J, Kamath PS, Shah VH. ACG Clinical Guideline:
alcoholic liver disease. _Am J Gastroenterol_. 2018;113(2):175-194. PMID:
29336434 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29336434.

## Review Date 2/23/2018

Updated by: Jenifer K. Lehrer, MD, Department of Gastroenterology, Aria-
Jefferson Health Torresdale, Jefferson Digestive Diseases Network,
Philadelphia, PA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Internal
review and update on 01/17/2020 by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cirrhosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cirrhosis2_thumb.jpg)Cirrhosis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

