Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000290.htm    
                                Description: Cirrhosis is scarring of the liver and poor liver function. It is the last stage of chronic liver disease. You were in the hospital to treat this condition.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cirrhosis - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000290.htm

# Cirrhosis - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cirrhosis is scarring of the liver and poor liver function. It is the last
stage of chronic liver disease. You were in the hospital to treat this
condition.

## When You're in the Hospital

You have cirrhosis of the liver. Scar tissue forms and your liver gets smaller
and harder. Most of the time, this damage cannot be undone. However, the
problems it causes can be treated.

While you were in the hospital, you may have had:

      * Lab tests, x-rays, and other imaging exams
      * A sample of liver tissue taken (biopsy)
      * Treatment with drugs
      * Fluid (ascites) drained from your belly
      * Tiny rubber bands tied around blood vessels in your esophagus (the tube that carries food from your mouth to your stomach)
      * Placement of a tube or shunt (TIPS or TIPSS) to help prevent too much fluid in your belly
      * Antibiotics to treat or prevent infection in the fluid in your belly

## What to Expect at Home

Your health care provider will talk with you about what to expect at home.
This will depend on your symptoms and what caused your cirrhosis.

Medicines you may need to take include:

      * Lactulose, neomycin, or rifaximin for confusion caused by liver problems
      * Medicines to help prevent bleeding from your swallowing tube or esophagus
      * Water pills, for extra fluid in your body
      * Antibiotics, for infection in your belly 

## Self-care

DO NOT drink any alcohol. Your provider can help you stop drinking.

Limit salt in your diet.

      * Ask your provider which foods you should avoid. Your provider or nutritionist can give you a low-salt diet.
      * Learn to read labels on cans and packaged foods to avoid salt.
      * DO NOT add salt to your foods or use it in cooking. Use herbs or spices to add flavor to your foods. 

Ask your provider before taking any other medicines, vitamins, herbs, or
supplements that you buy at the store. This includes acetaminophen (Tylenol),
cold medicines, aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve), and
others.

Ask if you need shots or vaccines for hepatitis A, hepatitis B, lung
infections, and the flu.

You will need to see your provider for regular follow-up visits. Make sure you
go to these visits so your condition can be checked.

Other tips for caring for your liver are:

      * Eat a healthy diet.
      * Keep your weight at a healthy level.
      * Try to avoid becoming constipated.
      * Get enough exercise and rest.
      * Try to reduce your stress. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have:

      * Fever above 100.5Â°F (38Â°C), or a fever that does not go away
      * Belly pain
      * Blood in your stool or black, tarry stools
      * Blood in your vomit
      * Bruising or bleeding more easily
      * A buildup of fluid in your belly
      * Swollen legs or ankles
      * Breathing problems
      * Confusion or problems staying awake
      * Yellow color to your skin and the whites of your eyes (jaundice)

## Alternative Names

Liver failure - discharge; Liver cirrhosis - discharge

## References

Garcia-Tsao G. Cirrhosis and its sequelae. Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 153.

Kamath PS, Shah VH. Overview of cirrhosis. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt
LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 74.

## Read More

      * Alcoholic liver disease
      * Alcohol use disorder
      * Bleeding esophageal varices
      * Cirrhosis
      * Primary biliary cirrhosis
      * Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS)

## Patient Instructions

      * How to read food labels
      * Low-salt diet 

## Review Date 1/4/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Cirrhosis

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

