Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007741.htm    
                                Description: Rectal bleeding is when blood passes from the rectum or anus. Bleeding may be noted on the stool or be seen as blood on toilet paper or in the toilet. The blood may be bright red. The term &quot;hematochezia&quot;    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Rectal bleeding

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007741.htm

# Rectal bleeding

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Rectal bleeding is when blood passes from the rectum or anus. Bleeding may be
noted on the stool or be seen as blood on toilet paper or in the toilet. The
blood may be bright red. The term "hematochezia" is used to describe this
finding.

## Considerations

The color of the blood in the stools may indicate the source of bleeding.

Black or tarry stools may be due to bleeding in the upper part of the GI
(gastrointestinal) tract, such as the esophagus, stomach, or the first part of
the small intestine. In this case, blood is most often darker because it gets
digested on its way through the GI tract. Much less commonly, this type
bleeding can be brisk enough to present with bright rectal bleeding.

With rectal bleeding, the blood is red or fresh. This usually means that the
source of bleeding is the lower GI tract (colon and rectum).

Eating beets or foods with red food coloring can sometimes make stools appear
reddish. In these cases, your doctor can test the stool with a chemical to
rule out the presence of blood.

## Causes

Rectal bleeding causes include:

      * Anal fissure (a cut or a tear in the anal lining, often caused by straining hard, hard stools or frequent diarrhea). It may cause sudden onset of rectal bleeding. There is most often pain at the anal opening.
      * Hemorrhoids, a common cause of bright red blood. They may or may not be painful.
      * Proctitis (inflammation or swelling of the rectum and anus).
      * Rectal prolapse (rectum falls out through the anus).
      * Trauma or foreign body.
      * Colorectal polyps.
      * Colon, rectal, or anus cancer.
      * Ulcerative colitis.
      * Infection in the intestines.
      * Diverticulosis (abnormal pouches in the colon). 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your health care provider if there is:

      * Fresh blood in your stools
      * A change in the color of your stools
      * Pain in the anal area while sitting or passing stools
      * Incontinence or lack of control over passage of stools
      * Unexplained weight loss
      * Drop in blood pressure that causes dizziness or fainting

You should see your provider and have an exam, even if you think that
hemorrhoids are causing the blood in your stool.

In children, a small amount of blood in the stool is most often not serious.
The most common cause is constipation. You should still tell your child's
provider if you notice this problem.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will take a medical history and perform a physical exam. The
exam will focus on your abdomen and rectum.

You may be asked the following questions:

      * Have you had any trauma to the abdomen or rectum?
      * Have you had more than one episode of blood in your stool? Is every stool this way?
      * Have you lost any weight recently?
      * Is there blood on the toilet paper only?
      * What color is the stool?
      * When did the problem develop?
      * What other symptoms are present (abdominal pain, vomiting blood, bloating, excessive gas, diarrhea, or fever?

You may need to have one or more imaging tests to look for the cause:

      * Digital rectal exam. 
      * Anoscopy.
      * Sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy to look inside your colon using a camera at the end of a thin tube to find or treat the source of bleeding may be needed.
      * Angiography.
      * Bleeding scan.

You may have one or more lab tests before, including:

      * Complete blood count (CBC)
      * Serum chemistries
      * Clotting studies
      * Stool culture

## Alternative Names

Rectal bleeding; Blood in the stool; Hematochezia; Lower gastrointestinal
bleeding

## Images

      * ![Anal fissure - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/15766t.jpg)Anal fissure - series
      * ![Hemorrhoids](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17069t.jpg)Hemorrhoids
      * ![Colonoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1083t.jpg)Colonoscopy

## References

Cheatham JG, Horwhat JD. Lower gastrointestinal tract bleeding. In: McNally
PR, ed. _GI/Liver Secrets Plus_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 51.

Lamps LW. Anus. In: Goldblum JR, Lamps LW, McKenney JK, Myers JL eds. _Rosai
and Ackerman's Surgical Pathology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap:18.

MacGilchrist A, Iredale J, Parks R. The gastrointestinal system. In: Douglas
G, Nicol F, Robertson C, eds. _Macleod's Clinical Examination_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2013:chap 8.

Melton-Meaux GB, Kwaan MR. Hemorrhoids, anal fissure, and anorectal abscess
and fistula. In: Kellerman RD, Bope ET, eds. _Conn's Current Therapy 2018_.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018:210-213.

## Review Date 6/18/2018

Updated by: Subodh K. Lal, MD, gastroenterologist with Gastrointestinal
Specialists of Georgia, Smyrna, GA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Rectal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RectalDisorders_thumb.jpg)Rectal
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

