

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

_Salmonella_

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# Multistate Outbreak of _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Imported Maradol
Papayas (Final Update)

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

Posted November 3, 2017 3:00 PM ET

This outbreak appears to be over. This outbreak was one of four separate
multistate outbreaks identified in 2017 linked to imported Maradol papayas
from four different farms in Mexico. For information on the other outbreaks,
please visit the Reports of _Salmonella_ Outbreak Investigations from 2017
webpage.

Highlights

                    * **Read the Recall and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers** **> >**
                    * This outbreak appears to be over.
                    * CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug AdministrationExternal investigated a multistate outbreak of _Salmonella_ infections.
                    * Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence indicated that Maradol papayas from the Carica de Campeche farm in Tenabo, Campeche, Mexico were the likely source of this outbreak.
                    * This outbreak included five types of _Salmonella_ : Thompson, Kiambu, Agona, Gaminara, and Senftenberg. The same strains of these types of _Salmonella_ were found in samples collected from papayas and from ill people.
                    * A total of 220 people infected with the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_ Thompson (144), _Salmonella_ Kiambu (54), _Salmonella_ Agona (12), _Salmonella_ Gaminara (7), or _Salmonella_ Senftenberg (3) were reported from 23 states. 
                      * Illnesses started on dates ranging from May 17, 2017 to October 4, 2017.
                      * Sixty-eight ill people were hospitalized. One death was reported from New York City.

Outbreak Summary

#### Introduction

CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External investigated a multistate outbreak
of _Salmonella_ infections linked to imported Maradol papayas from the Carica
de Campeche farm in Mexico.

Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses
that may have been part of this outbreak. A total of 220 people infected with
the outbreak strains of _Salmonella_ Thompson (144), _Salmonella_ Kiambu (54),
_Salmonella_ Agona (12), _Salmonella_ Gaminara (7), or _Salmonella_
Senftenberg (3) were reported from 23 states. A list of the states and the
number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. Whole genome
sequencing (WGS) showed that isolates from people infected with _Salmonella_
were closely related genetically. This close genetic relationship means that
people in this outbreak are more likely to share a common source of infection.

Illnesses started on dates ranging from May 17, 2017 to October 4, 2017. Ill
people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 95, with a median age of 40.
Among ill people, 62% were female. Among 169 people with available
information, 113 (67%) were of Hispanic ethnicity. Among 170 people with
available information, 68 (40%) were hospitalized. One death was reported from
New York City.

WGS did not identify antimicrobial resistance genes among isolates from 139
ill people; one ill person's isolate, a _Salmonella_ Senftenberg, contained a
gene known to decrease susceptibility to ciprofloxacin. Standard antibiotic
susceptibility testing methods were used by CDC's National Antimicrobial
Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory on clinical isolates from 10
ill people in this outbreak and no resistance was detected.

#### Investigation of the Outbreak

Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence indicated that Maradol papayas imported
from Mexico were the likely source of this multistate outbreak.

In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and
other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of 145 people interviewed,
79 (54%) reported eating papayas. This proportion was significantly higher
than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF - 29 pages] of healthy Hispanic people
in which 22% reported eating papayas in the summer months in the week before
they were interviewed.

The Maryland Department of HealthExternal collected papayas from a grocery
store where several ill people reported eating papayas. One sample yielded
_Salmonella_ Kiambu and another sample yielded _Salmonella_ Thompson. Both
samples were from Caribeña brand Maradol papayas imported from Mexico. WGS
showed that the _Salmonella_ Kiambu papaya isolate was closely related
genetically to the _Salmonella_ Kiambu isolates from ill people. WGS also
showed that the _Salmonella_ Thompson papaya isolate was closely related
genetically to _Salmonella_ Thompson isolates from ill people. On July 26,
Grande Produce recalledExternal Caribeña brand Maradol papayas that were
distributed between July 10 and July 19, 2017.

FDAExternal tested other papayas imported from Mexico and isolated several
types of _Salmonella_ , including _Salmonella_ Agona, _Salmonella_ Kiambu,
_Salmonella_ Gaminara, _Salmonella_ Thompson, and _Salmonella_ Senftenberg.
Through this testing, FDA also identified Maradol papayas from the Carica de
Campeche papaya farm in Campeche, Mexico as a likely source of the outbreak.
Investigators compared pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and WGS results
of _Salmonella_ isolates from the papayas to isolates from ill people in the
CDC PulseNet database. These results showed the _Salmonella_ isolates from
papayas shared the same DNA fingerprint as the _Salmonella_ isolates from ill
people. This result provided more evidence that people in this outbreak got
sick from eating contaminated Maradol papayas.

On August 5, Agroson's LLC recalledExternal certain Cavi brand Maradol papayas
grown and packed by Carica de Campeche. On August 7, Freshtex Produce, LLC
recalledExternal Valery brand Maradol papayas grown and packed by Carica de
Campeche.

This outbreak appears to be over. This outbreak was one of four separate
multistate outbreaks identified in 2017 linked to imported Maradol papayas
from Mexico. For information on the other outbreaks, please visit the Reports
of _Salmonella_ Outbreak Investigations from 2017 webpage.

### Previous Investigation Updates

September 13, 2017

#### Case Count Update

Since the last update on September 1, 2017, ten more ill people from 7 states
were added to this investigation.

As of September 11, 2017, a total of 210 people infected with the outbreak
strains of _Salmonella_ Thompson (135), _Salmonella_ Kiambu (59), _Salmonella_
Agona (10), or _Salmonella_ Gaminara (6) have been reported from 24 states. A
list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case
Count Map page.

Illnesses started on dates ranging from May 17, 2017 to August 27, 2017. Ill
people range in age from less than 1 year to 95, with a median age of 37. Some
information is not available for all of the ill people. Among 205 ill people,
124 (60%) are female. Among 162 people, 109 (67%) are of Hispanic ethnicity.
Among 168 people, 67 (40%) have been hospitalized. One death was reported from
New York City.

Illnesses that occurred after August 11, 2017, might not be reported yet due
to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is
reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks.

This investigation is ongoing and CDC will provide updates when more
information becomes available.

September 1, 2017

#### Case Count Update

Since the last update on August 18, 2017, 28 more ill people from 12 states
were added to this investigation.

As of August 30, 2017, a total of 201 people infected with the outbreak
strains of _Salmonella_ Thompson (131), _Salmonella_ Kiambu (57), _Salmonella_
Agona (8), or _Salmonella_ Gaminara (5) have been reported from 23 states. A
list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case
Count Map page.

Illnesses started on dates ranging from May 17, 2017 to August 20, 2017. Ill
people range in age from less than 1 year to 95, with a median age of 37. Some
information is not available for all of the ill people. Among 196 ill people,
118 (60%) are female. Among 153 people, 101 (66%) are of Hispanic ethnicity.
Among 158 people, 65 (41%) have been hospitalized. One death was reported from
New York City.

Illnesses that occurred after August 1, 2017, might not be reported yet due to
the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is
reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks.

#### Investigation Update

As a result of this outbreak investigation, FDA has increased testing of
papayas from Mexico to see if papayas from other farms are contaminated with
_Salmonella_. Through this increased testing, FDA identified other types of
_Salmonella_ not linked to this outbreak on papayas from Caraveo Produce in
Tecoman, Mexico and El Zapotanio in La Huerta, Mexico. FDA reportsExternal
that the shipments of papayas found to be contaminated were destroyed and were
not distributed for sale in the United States.  Papayas from these farms were
distributed in the United States earlier this year, but FDA reports that no
shipments of papayas from either farm are on the market in the United States
because they are past their shelf life.

Through a review of the PulseNet database, CDC identified two more outbreaks
of people infected with _Salmonella_ with the same DNA fingerprints as the
_Salmonella_ found on papayas from these two other farms. Available
information indicates that illnesses in these two outbreaks are not linked to
papayas from the Carica de Campeche farm and are being investigated
separately. Summaries of the two outbreaks are provided below.

**Outbreak of _Salmonella_ Newport and _Salmonella_ Infantis Infections**

FDA testing identified _Salmonella_ Newport and _Salmonella_ Infantis in an
imported papaya sample collected from Caraveo Produce in Tecoman, Mexico. CDC
identified three people in the PulseNet database who were infected with the
same DNA fingerprint of _Salmonella_ Newport (2 people) or _Salmonella_
Infantis (1 person). The ill people were reported from three states: Illinois,
Massachusetts, and Michigan. All three people (100%) reported eating or
possibly eating papayas in the week before illness started.

**Outbreak of _Salmonella_ Urbana Infections**

FDA testing identified _Salmonella_ Urbana in an imported papaya sample
collected from El Zapotanio in La Huerta, Mexico. CDC identified six people in
the PulseNet database who were infected with the same DNA fingerprint of
_Salmonella_ Urbana. The ill people were reported from three states: New
Jersey (4), New York (1), and Pennsylvania (1). Of four people with
information available, three (75%) reported eating or possibly eating papayas
in the week before illness started.

Because three separate outbreaks linked to papayas from different farms have
been identified, CDC is concerned that papayas from several other farms in
Mexico might be contaminated with _Salmonella_ and have made people sick. FDA
continues testing papayas from Mexico to see if other papayas from other farms
are contaminated with _Salmonella_. Investigations are ongoing to determine if
additional consumer warnings are needed beyond the advice not to eat papayas
from specific farms that is given in this update. Updates will be provided
when more information is available.

August 18, 2017

#### Introduction

Since the last update on August 11, 2017, 34 more ill people were added to
this investigation from 11 states.

As of August 16, 2017, 173 people infected with the outbreak strains of
_Salmonella_ Kiambu (51), _Salmonella_ Thompson (111), _Salmonella_ Agona (7),
or _Salmonella_ Gaminara (4) have been reported from 21 states. A list of the
states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map
page.

Illnesses started on dates ranging from May 17, 2017 to July 31, 2017. Ill
people range in age from less than 1 year to 95, with a median age of 38. Some
information is not available for all of the ill people. Among 169 ill people,
101 (60%) are female. Among 135 people, 91 (67%) are of Hispanic ethnicity.
Among 136 people, 58 (43%) have been hospitalized. One death was reported from
New York City.

Illnesses that occurred after July 18, 2017, might not be reported yet due to
the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is
reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks.

#### Investigation Update

As was reported in the update on August 4, FDAExternal tested other papayas
imported from Mexico and isolated several types of _Salmonella_ bacteria,
including _Salmonella_ Agona, _Salmonella_ Kiambu, _Salmonella_ Gaminara,
_Salmonella_ Thompson, and _Salmonella_ Senftenberg. Investigators compared
pulsed-field gel electrophoresis and whole genome sequencing results of
_Salmonella_ isolates from the papayas to isolates from ill people in the CDC
PulseNet database. CDC has now identified 11 people infected with the same
strains of either _Salmonella_ Agona (7) or _Salmonella_ Gaminara (4) _._
These 11 illnesses have been added to the case count for this outbreak. Among
5 for whom information was available, all 5 (100%) reported eating or possibly
eating papayas in the week before becoming ill.

This investigation is ongoing. Updates will be provided when more information
is available.

August 11, 2017

#### Introduction

Since the last update on August 4, 2017, 32 more ill people were added to this
investigation from 15 states.

As of August 9, 2017, 141 people infected with the outbreak strains of
_Salmonella_ Kiambu (51) or _Salmonella_ Thompson (90) have been reported from
19 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found
on the Case Count Map page.

Illnesses started on dates ranging from May 17, 2017 to July 27, 2017. Ill
people range in age from less than 1 year to 95, with a median age of 39.
Among 136 ill people with available information, 83 (61%) are female. Among 98
people with available information, 66 (67%) are of Hispanic ethnicity. Among
103 people with available information, 45 (44%) have been hospitalized. One
death was reported from New York City.

Illnesses that occurred after July 14, 2017, might not be reported yet due to
the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is
reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks.

#### Investigation Update

Based on information collected to date, CDC is now recommending that consumers
not eat Maradol papayas from the Carica de Campeche farm in Mexico. If
consumers aren't sure if their Maradol papaya came from the Carica de Campeche
farm, they should ask the place of purchase. When in doubt, don't eat it; just
throw it out. Restaurants and retailers should not serve or sell Maradol
papayas from the Carica de Campeche farm.

As was reported in the last update on August 4, FDAExternal tested other
papayas imported from Mexico and isolated several types of _Salmonella_
bacteria, including _Salmonella_ Agona, _Salmonella_ Kiambu, _Salmonella_
Gaminara, _Salmonella_ Thompson, and _Salmonella_ Senftenberg. CDC is working
to determine if there are any illnesses with these other types of _Salmonella_
linked to this outbreak _._

This investigation is ongoing. Updates will be provided when more information
is available.

August 4, 2017

#### Introduction

Since the last update on July 21, 2017, 64 more ill people were added to this
investigation from 15 states.

As of August 3, 2017, 109 people infected with the outbreak strains of
_Salmonella_ Kiambu (48) and _Salmonella_ Thompson (61) have been reported
from 16 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be
found on the Case Count Map page.

Illnesses started on dates ranging from May 17, 2017 to July 22, 2017. Ill
people range in age from less than 1 year to 95, with a median age of 36.
Among ill people, 63% are female. Among 74 people with available information,
50 (68%) are of Hispanic ethnicity. Among 76 people with available
information, 35 (46%) were  hospitalized. One death was reported from New York
City.

This outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who
became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve.
Illnesses that occurred after July 10, 2017 might not be reported yet due to
the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is
reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for
Reporting Cases of _Salmonella_ Infection for more details.

#### Investigation Update

In ongoing interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate
and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of the 59 interviewed,
28 (47%) reported eating papayas. This proportion was significantly higher
than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF - 29 pages] of healthy Hispanic people
in which 16% reported eating papayas in the months of May and June in the week
before they were interviewed.

Investigators used whole genome sequencing (WGS) to learn more about the DNA
fingerprint of the strains of _Salmonella_ isolated from Maradol papayas that
Maryland health officials collected from a grocery store in that state.
Samples from these papayas yielded outbreak strains of _Salmonella_ Kiambu and
_Salmonella_ Thompson. Both samples were from Caribeña brand Maradol papayas
imported from Mexico. Investigators compared WGS results of _Salmonella_
isolates from the papayas to clinical isolates from ill people in the PulseNet
database.

WGS showed that the _Salmonella_ Kiambu papaya isolate is closely related
genetically to _Salmonella_ Kiambu isolates from ill people. WGS also showed
that the _Salmonella_ Thompson papaya isolate is closely related genetically
to _Salmonella_ Thompson isolates from ill people. This result provides more
evidence that people in this outbreak got sick from eating contaminated
Maradol papayas imported from Mexico.

FDAExternal tested other papayas imported from Mexico and isolated several
types of _Salmonella_ , including _Salmonella_ Agona, _Salmonella_ Kiambu,
_Salmonella_ Gaminara, _Salmonella_ Thompson, and _Salmonella_ Senftenberg.
Through this testing, the FDA has also identified Maradol papayas from the
Carica de Campeche papaya farm in Mexico as a likely source of the outbreak.

On August 5, Agroson's LLC recalledExternal certain Cavi brand Maradol papayas
grown and packed by Carica de Campeche. The Cavi brand carries a purple, green
and black sticker with the words "cavi MEXICO 4395" in white. Only certain lot
codes of Cavi brand Maradol papayas were recalled, because they were known to
come from Carica de Campeche. Boxes provided to wholesalers are stamped with
CARICA DE CAMPECHE on the upper left side of the box. Other Cavi papayas,
sourced from other farms, were not recalled.

FDA is working to identify other brands of papayas that may have originated
from Carica de Campeche and facilitate recalls. More information is available
on FDA's website.

CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory
surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to
interview them. Further investigation by FDA and regulatory officials is under
way to determine the point in the supply chain where the papayas were
contaminated. Updates will be provided when more information is available.

Initial Announcement

#### Introduction

CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External are investigating a multistate
outbreak of _Salmonella_ Kiambu infections.

Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify
illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national
subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories
coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on _Salmonella_ bacteria
isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel
electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages
a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks.
WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE.

As of July 21, 2017, 47 people infected with the outbreak strain of
_Salmonella_ Kiambu have been reported from 12 states. A list of the states
and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. WGS
showed that isolates from people infected with _Salmonella_ Kiambu are closely
related genetically. This close genetic relationship means that people in this
outbreak are more likely to share a common source of infection.

Illnesses started on dates ranging from May 17, 2017 to June 28, 2017. Ill
people range in age from less than 1 year to 95, with a median age of 27.
Among ill people, 67% are female. Among 31 people with available information,
18 (58%) are of Hispanic ethnicity. Among 33 people with available
information, 12 (36%) report being hospitalized. One death was reported from
New York City.

This outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who
became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve.
Illnesses that occurred after June 23, 2017 might not be reported yet due to
the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is
reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for
Reporting Cases of _Salmonella_ Infection for more details.

#### Investigation of the Outbreak

Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence collected to date indicate that Maradol
papayas imported from Mexico are a likely source of this multistate outbreak.
This investigation is ongoing.

In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and
other exposures in the week before they became ill. Eleven (44%) of 25 people
interviewed reported eating papayas. This proportion was significantly higher
than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF - 29 pages] of healthy Hispanic people
in which 16% reported eating papayas in the months of May and June in the week
before they were interviewed.

An illness cluster in Maryland was identified. An illness cluster is defined
as two or more people who do not live in the same household who report eating
at the same restaurant location, attending a common event, or shopping at the
same location of a grocery store in the week before becoming ill. In Maryland,
several ill people reported eating papayas purchased from the same location of
a grocery store. _Salmonella_ Kiambu and _Salmonella_ Thompson were isolated
from samples collected from ill people. Investigating illness clusters
provides critical clues about the source of an outbreak. If several unrelated
ill people ate or shopped at the same location of a restaurant or store within
several days of each other, it suggests that the contaminated food item was
served or sold there.

The Maryland Department of HealthExternal collected papayas from the grocery
store associated with the illness cluster to test for _Salmonella_. One sample
yielded the outbreak strain of _Salmonella_ Kiambu and another sample yielded
_Salmonella_ Thompson. Both samples were from Caribeña brand Maradol papayas
imported from Mexico. WGS showed that the _Salmonella_ Kiambu papaya isolate
is closely related genetically to the _Salmonella_ Kiambu isolates from ill
people. This result provides more evidence that people in this outbreak got
sick from eating contaminated Maradol papayas. CDC is working to collect
additional information to determine whether the recent _Salmonella_ Thompson
illness in Maryland is part of this multistate outbreak.

On July 26, Grande Produce recalledExternal Caribeña brand Maradol papayas
that were distributed between July 10 and July 19, 2017. Based on the
available evidence, CDC recommends that consumers not eat, restaurants not
serve, and retailers not sell Maradol papayas from Mexico until we learn more
about other possible brands that might be linked to this outbreak.

CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory
surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to
interview them. Further investigation by FDA and regulatory officials is under
way to determine the point in the supply chain where the papayas were
contaminated. Updates will be provided when more information is available.

At A Glance

                    * Case Count: 220
                    * States: 23
                    * Deaths: 1
                    * Hospitalizations: 68
                    * Recall: Yes

More Information

                    * Recall & Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                    * Signs & Symptoms
                    * Key Resources

![Photo of a papaya cut open](/salmonella/kiambu-07-17/images/papaya.jpg)

Maradol Papaya: Maradol papayas are a large, oval fruit that weighs 3 or more
pounds, with green skins that turn yellow when the fruit is ripe. The flesh
inside the fruit is salmon-colored.

CLICK TO VIEW EPI CURVE GRAPHS

![People infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Kiambu or Salmonella
Thompson, by date of illness onset*](/salmonella/kiambu-07-17/images/epi-
curve/small-epi-7-21-17.jpg)

CLICK TO VIEW CASE COUNT MAPS

![People infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella, by state of
residence](/salmonella/kiambu-07-17/images/map/small-map-8-3-17.jpg)

Page last reviewed: July 21, 2017

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Foodborne,
Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases (DFWED)

home _Salmonella_ Homepage

                    * Questions & Answersplus icon
                      * Additional Information
                    * Prevention
                    * Symptoms
                    * Diagnosis & Treatmentplus icon
                      * Diagnostic and Public Health Testing
                    * Current Outbreaksplus icon
                      * Reporting Timeline
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Pet Turtlesplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tortugas mascota pequeÃ±as
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Cut Fruitplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Ground Beefplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a la carne de res molida
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Turtlesplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a turtugas mascota
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pig Ear Dog Treatsplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Papayasplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a papayas frescas enteras importadas de MÃ©xico
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Karawan brand Tahiniplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tahini de la marca Karawan
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Backyard Poultryplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brotes de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculados a aves de corral domÃ©sticas
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Raw Tunaplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ Newport vinculado a atÃºn crudo congelado
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melonplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ Carrau vinculado a melÃ³n y sandÃ­a precortados
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Butterball Brand Ground Turkeyplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pavo molido de marca Butterball
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones de la investigaciÃ³n del brote, por fecha
                      * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Hedgehogsplus icon
                        * Map of Reported Cases
                        * Timeline of Reported Cases
                        * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                        * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a los erizos como mascota
                        * Mapa de casos reportados
                        * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                        * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                    * Previous Outbreaksplus icon
                      * 2018 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Multidrug-Resistant _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Turkey Productsplus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella multirresistente vinculado a productos de pavo crudo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Tahini from Achdut Ltd., 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a tahini elaborado por Achdut Ltd.
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Chicken Products, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Advice to Clinicians
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella multirresistente vinculado a productos de pollo crudo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Recomendaciones para los mÃ©dicos
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado a carne molida de res
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Agbeni Infections, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Gravel Ridge Farms Shell Eggs, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pollo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por _Salmonella_ vinculado al pollo
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Hy-Vee Spring Pasta Salad, 2018plus icon
                          * Map of Reported Cases
                          * Timeline of Reported Cases
                          * Previous Outbreak Investigation Updates
                          * Brote de infecciones por Salmonella vinculado a la ensalada de pasta âHy-Vee Spring Pasta Saladâ
                          * Mapa de casos reportados
                          * Cronograma de los casos reportados
                          * Actualizaciones anteriores de la investigaciÃ³n del brote
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kelloggâs Honey Smacks Cereal, 2018plus icon
                          * Salmonella Infections Linked to Kelloggâs Honey Smacks Cereal en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melon, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melon en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Contact with Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Contact with Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                        * _Salmonella_ Braenderup Infections Linked to Shell Eggs, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Braenderup Infections Linked to Shell Eggs en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recalls and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Dried Coconut, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Dried Coconut en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Guinea Pigs, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Guinea Pigs en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Case Count Maps en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Signs & Symptoms en EspaÃ±ol
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken Salad, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chicken Salad en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kratom, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Kratom en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recalls and Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Montevideo Infections Linked to Raw Sprouts, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Raw Sprouts en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut, 2018plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut en EspaÃ±ol
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Shredded Coconut á» Viá»t Nam [PDF â 3 pages]
                          * Recall and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2017 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Urbana Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Urbana Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Newport & Infantis Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Newport & Infantis Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Anatum Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Anatum Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Turtles, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2017 en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Case Count Maps
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas, 2017plus icon
                          * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Laboratory Exposure, 2017plus icon
                          * Advice to Students & Employees in Microbiology Laboratories
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry in Backyard Flocksplus icon
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Live Poultry FAQ
                      * 2016 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Contact with Dairy Calves, 2016plus icon
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                        * _Salmonella_ Oranienburg Infections Linked to Shell Eggs, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Reading and _Salmonella_ Abony Infections linked to Alfalfa Sprouts, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps 
                          * Epi Curves 
                          * Signs & Symptoms 
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Live Poultry FAQs
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Montevideo and _Salmonella_ Senftenberg Infections Linked to Wonderful Pistachios, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers and Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts from One Contaminated Seed Lot, 2016plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Virchow Infections Linked to Raw Meal Organic Shake and Meal Products, 2016plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2015 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) Infections Linked to Sprouted Nut Butter Spreads, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2015plus icon
                          * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Advice to Pet Owners en EspaÃ±ol
                          * Signs & Symptoms 
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Poona Infections Linked to Imported Cucumbers, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Multidrug-Resistant _Salmonella_ I 4,[5],12:i:- and _Salmonella_ Infantis Infections Linked to Pork, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Enteritidis Infections Linked to Raw, Frozen, Stuffed Chicken Entrees Produced by Aspen Foods, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Drug-Resistant _Salmonella_ Enteritidis Infections Linked to Raw, Frozen, Stuffed Chicken Entrees Produced by Barber Foods, 2015plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Backyard Flock Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Frozen Raw Tuna, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Retailers & Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Crested Geckos, 2015plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2014 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Bean Sprouts, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers & Retailers
                          * Final Case Count Maps
                          * Final Epi Curve
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Braenderup Infections Linked to Nut Butter, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human Typhimurium Infections Linked to Laboratory Exposure, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Students & Employees in Labs
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Chia Powder, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Frozen Feeder Rodents, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pet Bearded Dragons, 2014plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Tyson Brand Mechanically Separated Chicken, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Institutions
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Stanley Infections Linked to Raw Cashew Cheese, 2014plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2013 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Foster Farms Brand Chicken, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                          * Timeline of Events
                        * _Salmonella_ Mbandaka Infections Linked to Tahini Sesame Paste, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Saintpaul Infections Linked to Imported Cucumbers, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Heidelberg Infections Linked to Chicken, 2013plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2013plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                      * 2012 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Bredeney Infections Linked to Peanut Butter, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Typhimurium Infections Linked to Hedgehogs, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Pet Owners
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Braenderup Infections Associated with Mangoes, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Typhimurium and Newport Infections Linked to Cantaloupe, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Ground Beef, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Hadar Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Montevideo Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Live Poultry, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infantis Infections Linked to Dry Dog Food, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Information for Pet Owners
                          * Information for Veterinarians
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                        * Bareilly and Nchanga Infections Associated with a Raw Scraped Ground Tuna Product, 2012plus icon
                          * Recall & Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resources
                          * Timeline of Events
                        * Human _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Small Turtles, 2012plus icon
                          * Advice to Consumers
                          * Case Count Maps
                          * Epi Curves
                          * Outbreaks Diagram
                          * Signs & Symptoms
                          * Key Resource
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Restaurant Chain A, 2012
                      * 2010 through 2011 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Ground Beef
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Kosher Broiled Chicken Livers
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Turkish Pine Nuts
                        * Heidelberg Infections Linked to Ground Turkey
                        * Agona Infections Linked to Whole, Fresh Imported Papayas
                        * Enteritidis Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts and Spicy Sprouts
                        * Altona and Johannesburg Infections Linked to Chicks and Ducklings
                        * Typhimurium Infections Associated with Lab Exposure
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to African Dwarf Frogs
                        * Hadar Infections Associated with Turkey Burgers
                        * Panama Infections Linked to Cantaloupe
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * Enteritidis Infections Associated with Shell Eggs
                        * Chester Infections Associated with Cheesy Chicken & Rice Frozen EntrÃ©e
                        * Typhi (Typhoid Fever) Associated with Frozen Mamey Fruit Pulp
                        * Hartford and Baildon Infections Associated with Restaurant Chain A
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Linked to Frozen Rodents
                        * Newport Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * Montevideo Infections Linked to Red and Black Pepper/Italian-Style Meats
                      * 2006 through 2009 Outbreaksplus icon
                        * Saintpaul Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts
                        * _Salmonella_ Infections Linked to Pistachio Nuts
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Peanut Butter
                        * Saintpaul Infections Linked to Raw Produce
                        * Agona Infections Linked to Rice & Wheat Puff Cereal
                        * Litchfield Infections Linked to Cantaloupe
                        * I 4,[5],12:i:- Infections Linked to Pot Pies
                        * Human Schwarzengrund Infections Linked to Dry Pet Food
                        * Wandsworth Infections Linked to Veggie Booty
                        * Tennessee Infections Linked to Peanut Butter
                        * Typhimurium Infections Linked to Tomatoes
                    * For Health Professionals
                    * Surveillanceplus icon
                      * _Salmonella_ Atlasplus icon
                        * 32 Individual Serotypes Reports
                        * Importance of Serotyping
                        * Snapshots of Serotypes
                    * Communication Materials
                    * Reports & Publicationsplus icon
                      * MMWR Articles
                      * References

Related Links

                    * Multistate Foodborne Outbreaks
                    * Zoonotic Diseases (Diseases from Animals)
                    * Foodborne Illness A-Z
                    * Estimates of Foodborne Illness
                    * Report a Foodborne Illness
                    * Foodsafety.govExternal file_external 
                    * U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External file_external 
                    * USDA Food Safety and Inspection ServiceExternal file_external 

Follow Salmonella

![Sign up for RSS feed.](/salmonella/images/outbreaks/rss-icon.png)

Sign up for RSS Feed

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

