Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001139.htm    
                                Description: Proctitis is an inflammation of the rectum. It can cause discomfort, bleeding, and the discharge of mucus or pus.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Proctitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001139.htm

# Proctitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Proctitis is an inflammation of the rectum. It can cause discomfort, bleeding,
and the discharge of mucus or pus.

## Causes

There are many causes of proctitis. They can be grouped as follows:

      * Inflammatory bowel disease
      * Autoimmune disease
      * Harmful substances
      * Non-sexually transmitted infection
      * Sexually transmitted disease (STD) 

Proctitis caused by STD is common in people who have anal intercourse. STDs
that can cause proctitis include gonorrhea, herpes, chlamydia, and
lymphogranuloma venereum.

Infections that are not sexually transmitted are less common than STD
proctitis. One type of proctitis not from an STD is an infection in children
that is caused by the same bacteria as strep throat.

Autoimmune proctitis is linked to diseases such as ulcerative colitis or Crohn
disease. If the inflammation is in the rectum only, it may come and go or move
upward into the large intestine.

Proctitis may also be caused by some medicines, radiotherapyÂ to prostate or
pelvis or inserting harmful substances into the rectum.

Risk factors include:

      * Autoimmune disorders, including inflammatory bowel disease
      * High-risk sexual practices, such as anal sex 

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

      * Bloody stools
      * Constipation
      * Rectal bleeding
      * Rectal discharge, pus
      * Rectal pain or discomfort
      * Tenesmus (pain with bowel movement)

## Exams and Tests

Tests that may be used include:

      * Exam of a stool sample
      * Proctoscopy
      * Rectal culture
      * Sigmoidoscopy

## Treatment

Most of the time, proctitis will go away when the cause of the problem is
treated. Antibiotics are used if an infection is causing the problem.

Corticosteroids or mesalamine suppositories or enemas may relieve symptoms for
some people.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is good with treatment.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Anal fistula
      * Anemia
      * Recto-vaginal fistula (women)
      * Severe bleeding 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have symptoms of proctitis.

## Prevention

Safe sex practices may help prevent the spread of the disease.

## Alternative Names

Inflammation - rectum; Rectal inflammation

## Images

      * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
      * ![Rectum](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9390t.jpg)Rectum

## References

Abdelnaby A, Downs JM. Diseases of the anorectum. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 129.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. 2015 Sexually Transmitted
Diseases Treatment Guidelines. www.cdc.gov/std/tg2015/proctitis.htm. Updated
June 4, 2015. Accessed April 9, 2019.

Coates WC. Disorders of the anorectum. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 86.

National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases website.
Proctitis. www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/digestive-
diseases/proctitis/all-content. Updated August 2016. Accessed April 9, 2019.

## Review Date 3/26/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Rectal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RectalDisorders_thumb.jpg)Rectal
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

