Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000590.htm    
                                Description: Your baby is staying in the hospital NICU. NICU stands for neonatal intensive care unit. While there, your baby will receive special medical care. Learn what to expect when you visit your baby in the NICU.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Visiting your baby in the NICU

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000590.htm

# Visiting your baby in the NICU

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your baby is staying in the hospital NICU. NICU stands for neonatal intensive
care unit. While there, your baby will receive special medical care. Learn
what to expect when you visit your baby in the NICU.

## What is a NICU?

The NICU is a special unit in the hospital for babies born preterm, very
early, or who have some other serious medical condition. Most babies born very
early will need special care after birth.

Your delivery may have taken place in a hospital that has a NICU. If not, you
and your baby may have been moved to a hospital with a NICU to receive special
care.

## Very Early Babies Look Different

When babies are born early, they have not yet finished growing. So, they will
not look like a baby that was carried a full 9 months.

      * A preterm infant will be smaller and will weigh less than a full-term infant.
      * The baby may have thin, smooth, shiny skin that you can see through.
      * The skin may look red because you can see blood in the vessels underneath. 

Other things you may notice:

      * Body hair (lanugo)
      * Less body fat
      * Floppy muscles and less movement 

## What to Expect in the NICU

Your baby will be put in an enclosed, see-through plastic crib called an
incubator. This special crib will:

      * Keep your baby warm. Your baby will not need to be wrapped in blankets.
      * Lessen the risk of an infection.
      * Control the moisture in the air to keep your baby from losing water. 

Your baby will wear a cap so the head will stay warm.

There will likely be tubes and wires attached to the baby. This can seem scary
to new parents. They are not hurting the baby.

      * Some tubes and wires are connected to monitors. They check the baby's breathing, heart rate, blood pressure, and temperature at all times.
      * A tube through your baby's nose carries food into the stomach.
      * Other tubes bring fluids and medicines to your baby.
      * Your baby may need to wear tubes that bring extra oxygen.
      * Your baby may need to be on a breathing machine (respirator).

## Bonding With Your Baby in the NICU

It is normal for parents to feel nervous or scared to have a baby in the NICU.
You can lessen these feelings by:

      * Getting to know the team that cares for your baby
      * Learning about all of the equipment 

Even though your baby is inside a special crib, it is still important for you
to touch your baby. Talk with the nurses about touching and talking to your
baby.

      * At first, you may only be able to stroke your baby's skin through the openings of the incubator.
      * As your baby grows and improves, you will be able to hold him and help with bathing him.
      * You can also talk and sing to your baby. 

Cuddling with your baby against your skin, called "kangaroo care," will also
help you bond. It will not be long before you see things you would have seen
had the baby been born full-term, like your baby's smile and your baby
grasping your fingers.

## Take Care of Yourself

After giving birth, your body will need some time to rest and recover. Your
feelings may also hit highs and lows. You may feel the joy of being a new mom
one moment, but anger, fear, guilt, and sadness the next.

Having a baby in the NICU is stressful enough, but these ups and downs can
also be caused by hormone changes after childbirth.

In some women, the changes may lead to feeling sad and depressed. If you are
having a hard time with your emotions, ask for the social worker in the NICU.
Or, talk to your doctor. It is OK to ask for help.

By taking care of yourself, you are taking care of your baby too. Your baby
needs your love and touch to grow and improve.

## Alternative Names

NICU - visiting baby; Neonatal intensive care - visiting

## References

Hobel CJ. Obstetric complications: preterm labor and delivery, PROM, IUGR,
postterm pregnancy, and IUFD. In: Hacker NF, Gambone JC, Hobel CJ, eds.
_Hacker & Moore's Essentials of Obstetrics and Gynecology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 12.

Thomson-Salo F. Care of the long-stay infant and parents. In: Martin RJ,
Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal
Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 48.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Premature Babies

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

