Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001562.htm    
                                Description: A premature infant is a baby born before 37 completed weeks of gestation (more than 3 weeks before the due date).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Premature infant

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001562.htm

# Premature infant

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A premature infant is a baby born before 37 completed weeks of gestation (more
than 3 weeks before the due date).

## Causes

At birth, a baby is classified as one of the following:

      * Premature (less than 37 weeks gestation)
      * Full term (37 to 42 weeks gestation)
      * Post term (born after 42 weeks gestation)

If a woman goes into labor before 37 weeks, it is called preterm labor.

Late preterm babies who are born between 35 and 37 weeks gestation may not
look premature. They may not be admitted to a neonatal intensive care unit
(NICU), but they are still at risk for more problems than full-term babies.

Health conditions in the mother, such as diabetes, heart disease, and kidney
disease, may contribute to preterm labor. Often, the cause of preterm labor is
unknown. Some premature births are multiple pregnancies, such as twins or
triplets.

Different pregnancy-related problems increase the risk of preterm labor or
early delivery:

      * A weakened cervix that begins to open (dilate) early, also called cervical incompetence
      * Birth defects of the uterus
      * History of preterm delivery
      * Infection (a urinary tract infection or infection of the amniotic membrane)
      * Poor nutrition right before or during pregnancy
      * Preeclampsia: high blood pressure and protein in the urine that develop after the 20th week of pregnancy
      * Premature rupture of the membranes (placenta previa)

Other factors that increase the risk for preterm labor and a premature
delivery include:

      * Age of the mother (mothers who are younger than 16 or older than 35)
      * Being African American
      * Lack of prenatal care
      * Low socioeconomic status
      * Use of tobacco, cocaine, or amphetamines

## Symptoms

The infant may have trouble breathing and keeping a constant body temperature.

## Exams and Tests

A premature infant may have signs of the following problems:

      * Not enough red blood cells (anemia)
      * Bleeding into the brain or damage to the brain's white matter
      * Infection or neonatal sepsis
      * Low blood sugar (hypoglycemia)
      * Neonatal respiratory distress syndrome, extra air in the tissue of the lungs (pulmonary interstitial emphysema), or bleeding in the lungs (pulmonary hemorrhage)
      * Yellow skin and whites of the eyes (newborn jaundice)
      * Problems breathing due to immature lungs, pneumonia, or patent ductus arteriosus
      * Severe intestinal inflammation (necrotizing enterocolitis)

A premature infant will have a lower birth weight than a full-term infant.
Common signs of prematurity include:

      * Abnormal breathing patterns (shallow, irregular pauses in breathing called apnea)
      * Body hair (lanugo)
      * Enlarged clitoris (in female infants)
      * Less body fat
      * Lower muscle tone and less activity than full-term infants
      * Problems feeding due to trouble sucking or coordinating swallowing and breathing
      * Small scrotum that is smooth and has no ridges, and undescended testicles (in male infants)
      * Soft, flexible ear cartilage
      * Thin, smooth, shiny skin that is often transparent (can see veins under skin)

Common tests performed on a premature infant include:

      * Blood gas analysis to check oxygen levels in the blood
      * Blood tests to check glucose, calcium, and bilirubin levels
      * Chest x-ray
      * Continuous cardiorespiratory monitoring (monitoring of breathing and heart rate)

## Treatment

When premature labor develops and can't be stopped, the health care team will
prepare for a high-risk birth. The mother may be moved to a center that is set
up to care for premature infants in a NICU.

After birth, the baby is admitted to the NICU. The infant is placed under a
warmer or in a clear, heated box called an incubator, which controls the air
temperature. Monitoring machines track the baby's breathing, heart rate, and
level of oxygen in the blood.

A premature infant's organs are not fully developed. The infant needs special
care in a nursery until the organs have developed enough to keep the baby
alive without medical support. This may take weeks to months.

Infants usually cannot coordinate sucking and swallowing before 34 weeks
gestation. A premature baby may have a small, soft feeding tube placed through
the nose or mouth into the stomach. In very premature or sick infants,
nutrition may be given through a vein until the baby is stable enough to
receive all nutrition through the stomach.

If the infant has breathing problems:

      * A tube may be placed into the windpipe (trachea). A machine called a ventilator will help the baby breathe.
      * Some babies whose breathing problems are less severe receive continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) with small tubes in the nose instead of the trachea. Or they may receive only extra oxygen.
      * Oxygen may be given by ventilator, CPAP, nasal prongs, or an oxygen hood over the baby's head. 

Infants need special nursery care until they are able to breathe without extra
support, eat by mouth, and maintain body temperature and body weight. Very
small infants may have other problems that complicate treatment and require a
longer hospital stay.

## Support Groups

There are many support groups for parents of premature babies. Ask the social
worker in the neonatal intensive care unit.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Prematurity used to be a major cause of infant deaths. Improved medical and
nursing techniques have increased the survival of premature infants.

Prematurity can have long-term effects. Many premature infants have medical,
developmental, or behavioral problems that continue into childhood or are
permanent. The more premature an infant and the smaller the birth weight, the
greater the risk forÂ complications. But, it is impossible to predict a baby's
long-term outcome based on gestational age or birth weight.

## Possible Complications

Possible long-term complications include:

      * Long-term lung problem called bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD)
      * Delayed growth and development
      * Mental or physical disability or delay
      * Vision problem called retinopathy of prematurity resulting in low visionÂ or blindness

## Prevention

The best ways to prevent prematurity are to:

      * Be in good health before getting pregnant.
      * Get prenatal care as early as possible in the pregnancy.
      * Continue to get prenatal care until the baby is born.

Getting early and good prenatal care reduces the chance of premature birth.

Premature labor can sometimes be treated or delayed by a medicine that blocks
uterine contractions. Many times, however, attempts to delay premature labor
are not successful.

Betamethasone (a steroid medicine) given to mothers in premature labor can
make some prematurity complications less severe.

## Alternative Names

Preterm infant; Preemie; Premie; Neonatal - premie; NICU - premie

## Patient Instructions

      * Newborn jaundice - discharge

## References

American Academy of Pediatrics website. Preemie.
www.healthychildren.org/English/ages-stages/baby/preemie/Pages/default.aspx.
Updated 2015. Accessed November 20, 2018.

Carlo WA. The high-risk infant. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 97.

Phillips RM, Goldstein M, Hougland K, et al. Multidisciplinary guidelines for
the care of late preterm infants. _J Perinatol_. 2013;33(Suppl 2):S5-S22.
PMID: 23803627 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23803627.

Simhan HN, Iams JD, Romero R. Preterm labor and birth. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl
JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 29.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Premature
Babies](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PrematureBabies_thumb.jpg)Premature
Babies _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

