Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002266.htm    
                                Description: Necrosis is the death of body tissue. It occurs when too little blood flows to the tissue. This can be from injury, radiation, or chemicals. Necrosis cannot be reversed.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Necrosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002266.htm

# Necrosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Necrosis is the death of body tissue. It occurs when too little blood flows to
the tissue. This can be from injury, radiation, or chemicals. Necrosis cannot
be reversed.

When large areas of tissue die due to a lack of blood supply, the condition is
called gangrene.

## Images

      * ![Meningococcemia on the calves](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2883t.jpg)Meningococcemia on the calves
      * ![Meningococcemia on the leg](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2884t.jpg)Meningococcemia on the leg
      * ![Meningococcemia associated purpura](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2912t.jpg)Meningococcemia associated purpura
      * ![Necrosis of the toes](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9690t.jpg)Necrosis of the toes

## References

Kumar V, Abbas AK, Aster JC. Cellular responses to stress and toxic insults:
adaptation, injury, and death. In: Kumar V, Abbas AK, Aster JC, eds. _Robbins
and Cotran Pathologic Basis of Disease_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 2.

## Review Date 8/16/2019

Updated by: Frank A. Greco, MD, PhD, Director, Biophysical Laboratory, Edith
Nourse Rogers Memorial Hospital, Bedford, MA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Gangrene](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Gangrene_thumb.jpg)Gangrene _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

