Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007218.htm    
                                Description: Gangrene is the death of tissue in part of the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gangrene

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007218.htm

# Gangrene

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Gangrene is the death of tissue in part of the body.

## Causes

Gangrene happens when a body part loses its blood supply. This may happen from
injury, an infection, or other causes. You have a higher risk for gangrene if
you have:

      * A serious injury
      * Blood vessel disease (such as arteriosclerosis, also called hardening of the arteries, in your arms or legs)
      * Diabetes
      * Suppressed immune system (for example, from HIV/AIDS or chemotherapy)
      * Surgery

## Symptoms

The symptoms depend on the location and cause of the gangrene. If the skin is
involved, or the gangrene is close to the skin, the symptoms may include:

      * Discoloration (blue or black if skin is affected; red or bronze if the affected area is beneath the skin)
      * Foul-smelling discharge 
      * Loss of feeling in the area (which may happen after severe pain in the area)

If the affected area is inside the body (such as gangrene of the gallbladder
or gas gangrene), the symptoms may include:

      * Confusion
      * Fever
      * Gas in tissues beneath the skin
      * General ill feeling
      * Low blood pressure
      * Persistent or severe pain

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider may diagnose gangrene from a physical examination. In
addition, the following tests and procedures may be used to diagnose gangrene:

      * Arteriogram (special x-ray to see any blockages in the blood vessels) to help plan treatment for blood vessel disease
      * Blood tests (white blood cell [WBC] count may be high)
      * CT scan to examine internal organs
      * Culture of the tissue or fluid from wounds to identify bacterial infection
      * Examining tissue under the microscope to look for cell death
      * X-rays 

## Treatment

Gangrene requires urgent evaluation and treatment. In general, dead tissue
should be removed to allow healing of the surrounding living tissue and
prevent further infection. Depending on the area that has the gangrene, the
person's overall condition, and the cause of the gangrene, treatment may
include:

      * Amputating the body part that has gangrene 
      * An emergency operation to find and remove dead tissue
      * An operation to improve blood supply to the area
      * Antibiotics
      * Repeated operations to remove dead tissue (debridement)
      * Treatment in the intensive care unit (for severely ill people)
      * Hyperbaric oxygen therapy to improve the amount of oxygen in the blood

## Outlook (Prognosis)

What to expect depends on where the gangrene is in the body, how much gangrene
there is, and the person's overall condition. If treatment is delayed, the
gangrene is extensive, or the person has other significant medical problems,
the person may die.

## Possible Complications

Complications depend on where in the body the gangrene is, how much gangrene
there is, the cause of the gangrene, and the person's overall condition.
Complications can include:

      * Disability from amputation or removal of dead tissue
      * Prolonged wound healing or the need for reconstructive surgery, such as skin grafting

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider right awayÂ if:

      * A wound does not heal or there are frequent sores in an area
      * An area of your skin turns blue or black
      * There is foul-smelling discharge from any wound on your body
      * You have persistent, unexplained pain in an area
      * You have persistent, unexplained fever

## Prevention

Gangrene may be prevented if it is treated before the tissue damage is
irreversible. Wounds should be treated properly and watched carefully for
signs of infection (such as spreading redness, swelling, or drainage) or
failure to heal.

People with diabetes or blood vessel disease should routinely examine their
feet for any signs of injury, infection, or change in skin color and seek care
as needed.

## Images

      * ![Gangrene](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/21738t.jpg)Gangrene

## References

Brownlee M, Aiello LP, Sun JK, et al. Complications of diabetes mellitus. In:
Melmed S, Auchus RJ, Goldfine AB, Koenig RJ, Rosen CJ, eds. _Williams Textbook
of Endocrinology_. 14th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 37.

Bury J. Responses to cellular injury. In: Cross SS, ed. _Underwood's
Pathology: A Clinical Approach_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap
5.

Scully R, Shah SK. Gangrene of the foot. In: Cameron AM, Cameron JL, eds.
_Current Surgical Therapy_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:1047-1054.

## Review Date 8/25/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Gangrene](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Gangrene_thumb.jpg)Gangrene _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

