Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000620.htm    
                                Description: Gas gangrene is a potentially deadly form of tissue death (gangrene).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gas gangrene

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000620.htm

# Gas gangrene

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Gas gangrene is a potentially deadly form of tissue death (gangrene).

## Causes

Gas gangrene is most often caused by bacteria called _Clostridium
perfringens._ It also can be caused by group A streptococcus, _Staphylococcus
aureus,_ and _Vibrio vulnificus_.

Clostridium is found nearly everywhere. As the bacteria grow inside the body,
it makes gas and harmful substances (toxins) that can damage body tissues,
cells, and blood vessels.

Gas gangrene develops suddenly. It usually occurs at the site of trauma or a
recent surgical wound. In some cases, it occurs without an irritating event.
People most at risk for gas gangrene usually have blood vessel disease
(atherosclerosis, or hardening of the arteries), diabetes, or colon cancer.

## Symptoms

Gas gangrene causes very painful swelling. The skin turns pale to brownish-
red. When the swollen area is pressed, gas can be felt as a crackly sensation
(crepitus). The edges of the infected area grow so quickly that changes can be
seen over minutes. The area may be completely destroyed.

Symptoms include:

      * Air under the skin (subcutaneous emphysema)
      * Blisters filled with brown-red fluid
      * Drainage from the tissues, foul-smelling brown-red or bloody fluid (serosanguineous discharge)
      * Increased heart rate (tachycardia)
      * Moderate to high fever
      * Moderate to severe pain around a skin injury
      * Pale skin color, later becoming dusky and changing to dark red or purple
      * Swelling that worsens around a skin injury
      * Sweating
      * Vesicle formation, combining into large blisters 
      * Yellow color to the skin (jaundice) 

If the condition is not treated, the person can go into shock with decreased
blood pressure (hypotension), kidney failure, coma, and finally death.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. This may reveal signs
of shock.

Tests that may be done include:

      * Tissue and fluid cultures to test for bacteria including clostridial species
      * Blood culture to determine the bacteria causing the infection
      * Gram stain of fluid from the infected area
      * X-ray, CT scan, or MRI of the area may show gas in the tissues. 

## Treatment

Surgery is needed quickly to remove dead, damaged, and infected tissue.

Surgical removal (amputation) of an arm or leg may be needed to control the
spread of infection. Amputation sometimes must be done before all test results
are available.

Antibiotics are also given. These medicines are given through a vein
(intravenously). Pain medicines may also be prescribed.

In some cases, hyperbaric oxygen treatment may be tried.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Gas gangrene usually begins suddenly and quickly gets worse. It is often
deadly.

## Possible Complications

Complications that may result include:

      * Coma
      * Delirium
      * Disfiguring or disabling permanent tissue damage
      * Jaundice with liver damage
      * Kidney failure 
      * Shock
      * Spread of infection through the body (sepsis)
      * Stupor
      * Death

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

This is an emergency condition requiring immediate medical attention.

Call your provider if you have signs of infection around a skin wound. Go to
the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911), if you
have symptoms of gas gangrene.

## Prevention

Clean any skin injury thoroughly. Watch for signs of infection (such as
redness, pain, drainage, or swelling around a wound). See your provider
promptly if these occur.

## Alternative Names

Tissue infection - clostridial; Gangrene - gas; Myonecrosis; Clostridial
infection of tissues; Necrotizing soft tissue infection

## Images

      * ![Gas gangrene](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17188t.jpg)Gas gangrene
      * ![Gas gangrene](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17190t.jpg)Gas gangrene
      * ![Bacteria](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23192t.jpg)Bacteria

## References

Onderdonk AB, Garrett WS. Gas gangrene and other _clostridium_ -associated
diseases. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and
Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_.
8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 248.

Sheridan R, Liu YM. Extremity gas gangrene. In: Cameron JL, Cameron AM, eds.
_Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:858-861.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Gangrene](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Gangrene_thumb.jpg)Gangrene _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

