Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001668.htm    
                                Description: Fragile X syndrome is a genetic condition involving changes in part of the X chromosome. It is the most common form of inherited intellectual disability in boys.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fragile X syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001668.htm

# Fragile X syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fragile X syndrome is a genetic condition involving changes in part of the X
chromosome. It is the most common form of inherited intellectual disability in
boys.

## Causes

Fragile X syndrome is caused by a change in a gene called _FMR1_. A small part
of the gene code is repeated several times in one area of the X chromosome.
The more repeats, the more likely the condition will occur.

The _FMR1_ gene makes a protein needed for your brain to function properly. A
defect in the gene makes your body produce too little of the protein, or none
at all.

Boys and girls can both be affected, but because boys have only one X
chromosome, a single fragile X expansion is likely to affect them more
severely. You can have fragile X syndrome even if your parents do not have it.

A family history of fragile X syndrome, developmental problems, or
intellectual disability may not be present.

## Symptoms

Behavior problems associated with fragile X syndrome include:

      * Autism spectrum disorder
      * Delay in crawling, walking, or twisting
      * Hand flapping or hand biting
      * Hyperactive or impulsive behavior
      * Intellectual disability 
      * Speech and language delay
      * Tendency to avoid eye contact 

Physical signs may include:

      * Flat feet
      * Flexible joints and low muscle tone
      * Large body size
      * Large forehead or ears with a prominent jaw
      * Long face
      * Soft skin 

Some of these problems are present at birth, while others may not develop
until after puberty.

Family members who have fewer repeats in the _FMR1_ gene may not have
intellectual disability. Women may have premature menopause or difficulty
becoming pregnant. Both men and women may have problems with tremors and poor
coordination.

## Exams and Tests

There are very few outward signs of fragile X syndrome in babies. Some things
the health care provider may look for include:

      * Large head circumference in babies
      * Intellectual disability
      * Large testicles after the start of puberty
      * Subtle differences in face features

In females, excess shyness may be the only sign of the disorder.

Genetic testing can diagnose this disease.

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for fragile X syndrome. Instead, training and
education have been developed to help affected children function at the
highest possible level.Â Clinical trials are ongoing (www.clinicaltrials.gov)
and looking at several possible medicines for treating fragile X syndrome.

## Support Groups

National Fragile X Foundation: fragilex.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well the person does depends on the amount of intellectual disability.

## Possible Complications

Complications vary, depending on the type and severity of symptoms. They may
include:

      * Recurrent ear infections in children
      * Seizure disorder

Fragile X syndrome can be a cause of autism or related disorders, although not
all children with fragile X syndrome have these conditions.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling may be helpful if you have a family history of this
syndrome and are planning to become pregnant.

## Alternative Names

Martin-Bell syndrome; Marker X syndrome

## References

Hunter JE, Berry-Kravis E, Hipp H, Todd PK. _FMR1_ disorders. _GeneReviews_.
2012:4. PMID: 20301558 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20301558. Updated November
21, 2019.

Kumar V, Abbas AK, Aster JC. Genetic and pediatric diseases. In: Kumar V,
Abbas AK, Aster JC, eds. _Robbins Basic Pathology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 7.

Madan-Khetarpal S, Arnold G. Genetic disorders and dysmorphic conditions. In:
Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of
Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
1.

## Review Date 7/29/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Fragile X
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FragileXSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Fragile X
Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

