Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000289.htm    
                                Description: Your child had surgery to treat gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). GERD is a condition that causes acid, food, or liquid to come up from the stomach into the esophagus. This is the tube that carries    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Anti-reflux surgery - children - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000289.htm

# Anti-reflux surgery - children - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your child had surgery to treat gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). GERD
is a condition that causes acid, food, or liquid to come up from the stomach
into the esophagus. This is the tube that carries food from the mouth to the
stomach.

Now that your child is going home, follow the surgeon's instructions on how to
care for your child at home. Use the information below as a reminder.

## When Your Child Was in the Hospital

During the operation, the surgeon wrapped the upper part of your child's
stomach around the end of the esophagus.

The surgery was done in one of these ways:

      * Through an incision (cut) in your child's upper belly (open surgery)
      * With a laparoscope (a thin tube with a tiny camera on the end) through small incisions
      * By endoluminal repair (like a laparoscope, but the surgeon goes in through the mouth) 

Your child may also have had a pyloroplasty. This is a procedure that widened
the opening between the stomach and small intestine. The doctor may have also
placed a g-tube (gastrostomy tube) in the child's belly for feeding.

## What to Expect at Home

Most children can go back to school or daycare as soon as they feel well
enough and when the surgeon feels it is safe.

      * Your child should avoid heavy lifting or strenuous activity, such as gym class and very active play, for 3 to 4 weeks.
      * You may ask your child's doctor for a letter to give to the school nurse and teachers to explain restrictions your child has. 

Your child may have a feeling of tightness when swallowing. This is from the
swelling insideÂ your child's esophagus. Your child may also have some
bloating. These should go away in 6 to 8 weeks.

Recovery is faster from laparoscopic surgery than from open surgery.

You will need to schedule a follow-up appointment with your child's primary
care provider or gastroenterologist and with the surgeon after the surgery.

## Care at Home

You'll help your child get back to a regular diet over time.

      * Your child should have started on a liquid diet in the hospital.
      * After the doctor feels your child is ready, you can add soft foods.
      * Once your child is taking soft foods well, talk with your child's doctor about returning to a regular diet.

If your child had a gastrostomy tube (G-tube) placed during surgery, it can be
used for feeding and venting. Venting is when the G-tube is opened to release
air from the stomach, similar to burping.

      * The nurse in the hospital should have shown you how to vent, care for, and replace the G-tube, and how to order G-tube supplies. Follow instructions on G-tube care.
      * If you need help with the G-tube at home, contact the home health care nurse who works for the G-tube supplier.

For pain, you can give your child over-the-counter pain medicines such as
acetaminophen (Tylenol) and ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin). If your child is still
having pain, call your child's doctor.

## Wound Care

If sutures (stitches), staples, or glue were used to close your child's skin:

      * You may remove the dressings (bandages) and allow your child to take a shower the day after surgery unless your doctor tells you differently.
      * If taking a shower isn't possible, you can give your child a sponge bath. 

If strips of tape were used to close your child's skin:

      * Cover the incisions with plastic wrap before showering for the first week. Tape the edges of the plastic carefully to keep water out.
      * DO NOT try to wash the tape off. They will fall off after about a week. 

DO NOT allow your child to soak in a bathtub or hot tub or go swimming until
your child's doctor tells you it is OK.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your child's health care provider if your child has:

      * A fever of 101Â°F (38.3Â°C) or higher
      * Incisions that are bleeding, red, warm to the touch, or have a thick, yellow, green, or milky drainage
      * A swollen or painful belly
      * Nausea or vomiting for more than 24 hours
      * Problems swallowing that keep your child from eating
      * Problems swallowing that do not go away after 2 or 3 weeks
      * Pain that pain medicine is not helping
      * Trouble breathing
      * A cough that does not go away
      * Any problems that make your child unable to eat
      * If the G-tube is accidentally removed or falls out 

## Alternative Names

Fundoplication - children - discharge; Nissen fundoplication - children -
discharge; Belsey (Mark IV) fundoplication - children - discharge; Toupet
fundoplication - children - discharge; Thal fundoplication - children -
discharge; Hiatal hernia repair - children - discharge; Endoluminal
fundoplication - children - discharge

## References

Iqbal CW, Holcomb GW. Gastroesophageal reflux. In: Holcomb GW, Murphy JP,
Ostlie DJ, eds. _Ashcraft's Pediatric Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 28.

Salvatore S, Vandenplas Y. Gastroesophageal reflux. In: Wylie R, Hyams JS, Kay
M, eds. _Pediatric Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 5th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 21.

## Read More

      * Anti-reflux surgery - children
      * Gastroesophageal reflux disease

## Patient Instructions

      * Gastroesophageal reflux - discharge
      * Heartburn - what to ask your doctor 

## Review Date 1/15/2019

Updated by: Robert A. Cowles, MD, Associate Professor of Surgery (Pediatrics),
Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * GERD

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

