Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000265.htm    
                                Description: Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is a condition in which the stomach contents leak backward from the stomach into the esophagus (food pipe). Food travels from your mouth to the stomach through your    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gastroesophageal reflux disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000265.htm

# Gastroesophageal reflux disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is a condition in which the stomach
contents leak backward from the stomach into the esophagus (food pipe). Food
travels from your mouth to the stomach through your esophagus. GERD can
irritate the food pipe and cause heartburn and other symptoms.

## Causes

When you eat, food passes from the throat to the stomach through the
esophagus. A ring of muscle fibers in the lower esophagus prevents swallowed
food from moving back up. These muscle fibers are called the lower esophageal
sphincter (LES).

When this ring of muscle does not close all the way, stomach contents can leak
back into the esophagus. This is called reflux or gastroesophageal reflux.
Reflux may cause symptoms. Harsh stomach acids can also damage the lining of
the esophagus.

![Gastroesophageal reflux
disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19609.jpg)

The risk factors for reflux include:

      * Use of alcohol (possibly)
      * Hiatal hernia (a condition in which part of the stomach moves above the diaphragm, which is the muscle that separates the chest and abdominal cavities)
      * Obesity
      * Pregnancy
      * Scleroderma
      * Smoking
      * Reclining within 3 hours after eating 

Heartburn and gastroesophageal reflux can be brought on or made worse by
pregnancy. Symptoms can also be caused by certain medicines, such as:

      * Anticholinergics (for example, sea sickness medicine)
      * Bronchodilators for asthma
      * Calcium channel blockers for high blood pressure
      * Dopamine-active drugs for Parkinson disease
      * Progestin for abnormal menstrual bleeding or birth control
      * Sedatives for insomnia or anxiety
      * Tricyclic antidepressants 

Talk to your health care provider if you think one of your medicines may be
causing heartburn. Never change or stop taking a medicine without first
talking to your provider.

![Heartburn](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200087t.gif)Watch this
video about:Heartburn

## Symptoms

Common symptoms of GERD include:

      * Feeling that food is stuck behind the breastbone
      * Heartburn or a burning pain in the chest
      * Nausea after eating 

Less common symptoms are:

      * Bringing food back up (regurgitation)
      * Cough or wheezing
      * Difficulty swallowing
      * Hiccups
      * Hoarseness or change in voice
      * Sore throat 

Symptoms may get worse when you bend over or lie down, or after you eat.
Symptoms may also be worse at night.

## Exams and Tests

You may not need any tests if your symptoms are mild.

If your symptoms are severe or they come back after you have been treated,
your doctor may perform a test called an upper endoscopy (EGD).

      * This is a test to examine the lining of the esophagus, stomach, and first part of the small intestine.
      * It is done with a small camera (flexible endoscope) that is inserted down the throat.

You may also need one or more of the following tests:

      * A test that measures how often stomach acid enters the tube that leads from the mouth to the stomach (called the esophagus)
      * A test to measure the pressure inside the lower part of the esophagus (esophageal manometry)

A positive stool occult blood test may diagnose bleeding that is coming from
the irritation in the esophagus, stomach, or intestines.

## Treatment

You can make many lifestyle changes to help treat your symptoms.

Other tips include:

      * If you are overweight or obese, in many cases, losing weight can help.
      * Raise the head of the bed if your symptoms get worse at night.  

      * Have your dinner 2 to 3 hours before going to sleep.  

      * Avoid drugs such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), or naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn). Take acetaminophen (Tylenol) to relieve pain.
      * Take all of your medicines with plenty of water. When your provider gives you a new medicine, ask whether it will make your heartburn worse.

You may use over-the-counter antacids after meals and at bedtime, although the
relief may not last very long. Common side effects of antacids include
diarrhea or constipation.

Other over-the-counter and prescription medicines can treat GERD. They work
more slowly than antacids, but give you longer relief. Your pharmacist,
doctor, or nurse can tell you how to take these medicines.

      * Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) decrease the amount of acid produced in your stomach.
      * H2 blockers also lower the amount of acid released in the stomach.

Anti-reflux surgery may be an option for people whose symptoms do not go away
with lifestyle changes and medicines. Heartburn and other symptoms should
improve after surgery. But you may still need to take medicines for your
heartburn.

There are also new therapies for reflux that can be performed through an
endoscope (a flexible tube passed through the mouth into the stomach).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people respond to lifestyle changes and medicines. However, many people
need to continue taking medicines to control their symptoms.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Worsening of asthma
      * A change in the lining of the esophagus that can increase the risk of cancer (Barrett esophagus)
      * Bronchospasm (irritation and spasm of the airways due to acid)
      * Long-term (chronic) cough or hoarseness
      * Dental problems
      * Ulcer in the esophagusÂ 
      * Stricture (a narrowing of the esophagus due to scarring)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if symptoms do not improve with lifestyle changes or
medicine.

Also call if you have:

      * Bleeding
      * Choking (coughing, shortness of breath)
      * Feeling filled up quickly when eating
      * Frequent vomiting
      * Hoarseness
      * Loss of appetite
      * Trouble swallowing (dysphagia) or pain with swallowing (odynophagia)
      * Weight loss
      * Feeling like food or pills are sticking behind the breast bone  

## Prevention

Avoiding factors that causeÂ heartburnÂ may help prevent symptoms. Obesity is
linked to GERD. Maintaining a healthy body weight may help prevent the
condition.

## Alternative Names

Peptic esophagitis; Reflux esophagitis; GERD; Heartburn - chronic; Dyspepsia -
GERD

## Patient Instructions

      * Anti-reflux surgery - children - discharge 
      * Anti-reflux surgery - discharge 
      * Gastroesophageal reflux - discharge
      * Heartburn - what to ask your doctor 
      * Taking antacids

## Images

      * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
      * ![Gastroesophageal reflux disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19609t.jpg)Gastroesophageal reflux disease
      * ![Gastroesophageal reflux - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/15835t.jpg)Gastroesophageal reflux - series

## References

Abdul-Hussein M, Castell DO. Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). In:
Kellerman RD, Rakel DP, eds. _Conn's Current Therapy 2020._ Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier 2020:219-222.

ASGE Standards of Practice Committee, Muthusamy VR, Lightdale JR, et al. The
role of endoscopy in the management of GERD. _Gastrointest Endosc._
2015;81(6):1305-1310. PMID: 25863867 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25863867.

Falk GW, Katzka DA. Diseases of the esophagus. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine._ 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 129.

Katz PO, Gerson LB, Vela MF. Guidelines for the diagnosis and management of
gastroesophageal reflux disease. _Am J Gastroenterol_. 2013;108(3):308-328.
PMID: 23419381 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23419381.

National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases website. Acid
reflux (GER & GERD) in adults. www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/digestive-
diseases/acid-reflux-ger-gerd-adults/all-content. Updated November 2015.
Accessed February 26, 2020.

Richter JE, Friedenberg FK. Gastroesophageal reflux disease. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease._ 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 44.

## Review Date 1/12/2020

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![GERD](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GERD_thumb.jpg)GERD _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

