Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000197.htm    
                                Description: Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is a condition in which the stomach contents leak backwards from the stomach into the esophagus (the tube from the mouth to the stomach). This article tells you what    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gastroesophageal reflux - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000197.htm

# Gastroesophageal reflux - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is a condition in which the stomach
contents leak backwards from the stomach into the esophagus (the tube from the
mouth to the stomach). This article tells you what you need to do to manage
your condition.

## When You're in the Hospital

You have gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). This is a condition in which
food or liquid travels backwards from the stomach into the esophagus (the tube
from the mouth to the stomach).

You may have had tests to help diagnose your GERD or complications you have
from it.

## Self-care

You can make many lifestyle changes to help treat your symptoms. Avoid foods
that cause problems for you.

      * DO NOT drink alcohol.
      * Avoid drinks and foods that have caffeine, such as soda, coffee, tea, and chocolate.
      * Avoid decaffeinated coffee. It also increases the level of acid in your stomach.
      * Avoid high-acid fruits and vegetables, such as citrus fruits, pineapple, tomatoes, or tomato-based dishes (pizza, chili, and spaghetti) if you find that they cause heartburn.
      * Avoid items with spearmint or peppermint. 

Other lifestyle tips that may make your symptoms better are:

      * Eat smaller meals, and eat more often.
      * Lose weight, if you need to.
      * If you smoke or chew tobacco, try to quit. Your health care provider can help.
      * Exercise, but not right after eating.
      * Reduce your stress and watch for stressful, tense times. Stress can bother your reflux problem.
      * Bend at the knees, not your waist, to pick things up.
      * Avoid wearing clothes that put pressure on your waist or stomach. 
      * Do not lie down for 3 to 4 hours after eating.

Avoid medicines such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), or naproxen
(Aleve, Naprosyn). Take acetaminophen (Tylenol) to relieve pain. Take any of
your medicines with plenty of water. When you start a new medicine, remember
to ask if it will make your heartburn worse.

Try these tips before going to sleep:

      * DO NOT skip meals or eat a large meal for dinner to make up for missed meals.
      * Avoid late night snacks.
      * DO NOT lie down right after you eat. Remain upright for 3 to 4 hours before you go to bed.
      * Raise your bed 4 to 6 inches (10 to 15 centimeters) at the head of your bed, using blocks. You can also use a wedge support that raises the top half of your body when you are in bed. (Extra pillows that raise only your head may not help.) 

## Drug Treatment

Antacids can help neutralize your stomach acid. They do not help to treat the
irritation in your esophagus. Common side effects of antacids include diarrhea
or constipation.

Other over-the-counter drugs and prescription drugs can treat GERD. They work
more slowly than antacids but give you longer relief. Your provider can tell
you how to take these drugs. There are two different types of these drugs:

      * H2 antagonists: famotidine (Pepcid), cimetidine (Tagamet), ranitidine (Zantac), and nizatidine (Axid)
      * Proton pump inhibitors (PPI): omeprazole (Prilosec or Zegarid), esomeprazole (Nexium), lansoprazole (Prevacid), dexlansoprazole (Dexilant), rabeprazole (AcipHex), and pantoprazole (Protonix)

## Follow-up

You will have follow-up visits with your provider to check your esophagus. You
may also need to have dental check-ups. GERD can cause the enamel on your
teeth to wear away.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have:

      * Problems or pain with swallowing
      * Choking
      * A full feeling after eating a small meal portion
      * Weight loss that cannot be explained
      * Vomiting
      * Loss of appetite
      * Chest pain
      * Bleeding, blood in your stools, or dark, tarry looking stools
      * Hoarseness 

## Alternative Names

Peptic esophagitis - discharge; Reflux esophagitis - discharge; GERD -
discharge; Heartburn - chronic - discharge

## Images

      * ![Gastroesophageal reflux disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19609t.jpg)Gastroesophageal reflux disease

## References

Abdul-Hussein M, Castell DO. Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). In:
Kellerman RD, Rakel DP, eds. _Conn's Current Therapy 2019_. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019;208-211.

Falk GW, Katzka DA. Diseases of the esophagus. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 138.

Katz PO, Gerson LB, Vela MF. Guidelines for the diagnosis and management of
gastroesophageal reflux disease. _Am J Gastroenterol_. 2013;108(3):308-328.
PMID: 23419381 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23419381.

Richter JE, Friedenberg FK. Gastroesophageal reflux disease. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 44.

## Read More

      * Anti-reflux surgery
      * Anti-reflux surgery - children
      * EGD - esophagogastroduodenoscopy
      * Gastroesophageal reflux disease

## Patient Instructions

      * Anti-reflux surgery - children - discharge 
      * Anti-reflux surgery - discharge 
      * Heartburn - what to ask your doctor 
      * Taking antacids

## Review Date 10/31/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * GERD

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

