Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000160.htm    
                                Description: You had surgery to treat your gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). GERD is a condition that causes food or liquid to come up from your stomach into your esophagus (the tube that carries food from your    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Anti-reflux surgery - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000160.htm

# Anti-reflux surgery - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had surgery to treat your gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). GERD is
a condition that causes food or liquid to come up from your stomach into your
esophagus (the tube that carries food from your mouth to your stomach).

Now that you're going home, be sure to follow your surgeon's instructions on
how to take care of yourself.

## When You're in the Hospital

If you had a hiatal hernia, it was repaired. A hiatal hernia develops when the
natural opening in your diaphragm is too large. Your diaphragm is the muscle
layer between your chest and belly. Your stomach may bulge through this large
hole into your chest. This bulging is called a hiatal hernia. It may make GERD
symptoms worse.

Your surgeon also wrapped the upper part of your stomach around the end of
your esophagus to create pressure at the end of your esophagus. This pressure
helps prevent stomach acid and food from flowing back up.

Your surgery was done by making a large incision in your upper belly (open
surgery) or with a small incision using a laparoscope (a thin tube with a tiny
camera on the end).

## What to Expect at Home

Most people go back to work 2 to 3 weeks after laparoscopic surgery and 4 to 6
weeks after open surgery.

You may have a feeling of tightness when you swallow for 6 to 8 weeks. This is
from the swelling inside your esophagus. You may also have some bloating.

## Self-care

When you return home, you will be drinking a clear liquid diet for 2 weeks.
You will be on a full liquid diet for about 2 weeks after that, and then a
soft-food diet.

On the liquid diet:

      * Start off with small amounts of liquid, about 1 cup (237 mL) at a time. Sip. DO NOT gulp. Drink liquids often during the day after surgery.
      * Avoid cold liquids.
      * DO NOT drink carbonated beverages.
      * DO NOT drink through straws (they can bring air into your stomach).
      * Crush pills and take them with liquids for the first month after surgery. 

When you are eating solid foods again, chew well. DO NOT eat cold foods. DO
NOT eat foods that clump together, such as rice or bread. Eat small amounts of
food several times a day instead of three big meals.

Your doctor will give you a prescription for pain medicine. Get it filled when
you go home so you have it when you need it. Take your pain medicine before
your pain becomes too severe.

      * If you have gas pains, try walking around to ease them.
      * DO NOT drive, operate any machinery, or drink alcohol when you are taking narcotic pain medicine. This medicine can make you very drowsy and driving or using machinery is not safe. 

Walk several times a day. DO NOT lift anything heavier than 10 pounds (about a
gallon of milk; 4.5 kg). DO NOT do any pushing or pulling. Slowly increase how
much you do around the house. Your doctor will tell you when you can increase
your activity and return to work.

## Wound Care

Take care of your wound (incision):

      * If sutures (stitches), staples, or glue were used to close your skin, you may remove the wound dressings (bandages) and take a shower the day after surgery.
      * If tape strips were used to close your skin, cover the wounds with plastic wrap before showering for the first week. Tape the edges of the plastic carefully to keep water out. DO NOT try to wash the strips off. They will fall off on their own after about a week.
      * DO NOT soak in a bathtub or hot tub, or go swimming, until your doctor tells you it is OK. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your health care provider if you have any of the following:

      * Temperature of 101Â°F (38.3Â°C) or higher
      * Incisions are bleeding, red, warm to the touch, or have a thick, yellow, green, or milky drainage
      * Belly swells or hurts
      * Nausea or vomiting for more than 24 hours
      * Problems swallowing that keep you from eating
      * Problems swallowing that do not go away after 2 or 3 weeks
      * Pain medicine is not helping your pain
      * Trouble breathing
      * Cough that does not go away
      * Can't drink or eat
      * Skin or the white part of your eyes turns yellowÂ 

## Alternative Names

Fundoplication - discharge; Nissen fundoplication - discharge; Belsey (Mark
IV) fundoplication - discharge; Toupet fundoplication - discharge; Thal
fundoplication - discharge; Hiatal hernia repair - discharge; Endoluminal
fundoplication - discharge; GERD - fundoplication discharge; Gastroesophageal
reflux disease - fundoplication discharge

## References

Katz PO, Gerson LB, Vela MF. Guidelines for the diagnosis and management of
gastroesophageal reflux disease. _Am J Gastroenterol_. 2013;108(3):308-328.
PMID: 23419381 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23419381.

Richter JE, Friedenberg FK. Gastroesophageal reflux disease. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 44.

Yates RB, Oelschlager BK, Pellegrini CA. Gastroesophageal reflux disease and
hiatal hernia. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds.
_Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis of Modern Surgical
Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 42.

## Read More

      * Anti-reflux surgery
      * Anti-reflux surgery - children
      * Esophageal stricture - benign
      * Esophagitis
      * Gastroesophageal reflux disease
      * Heartburn
      * Hiatal hernia

## Patient Instructions

      * Bland diet
      * Gastroesophageal reflux - discharge
      * Heartburn - what to ask your doctor 

## Review Date 10/28/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * GERD

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

