Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000782.htm    
                                Description: Multiple mononeuropathy is a nervous system disorder that involves damage to at least two separate nerve areas. Neuropathy means a disorder of the nerves.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Multiple mononeuropathy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000782.htm

# Multiple mononeuropathy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Multiple mononeuropathy is a nervous system disorder that involves damage to
at least two separate nerve areas. Neuropathy means a disorder of the nerves.

## Causes

Multiple mononeuropathy is a form of damage to one or more peripheral nerves.
These are the nerves outside the brain and spinal cord. It is a group of
symptoms (syndrome), not a disease.

However, certain diseases can cause the injury or nerve damage that leads to
the symptoms of multiple mononeuropathy. Common conditions include:

      * Blood vessel diseases such as polyarteritis nodosa
      * Connective tissue diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis or systemic lupus erythematosus (the most common cause in children)
      * Diabetes

Less common causes include:

      * Amyloidosis, an abnormal buildup of proteins in tissues and organs
      * Blood disorders (such as hypereosinophilia and cryoglobulinemia)
      * Infections such as Lyme disease, HIV/AIDS, or hepatitis
      * Leprosy
      * Sarcoidosis, inflammation of the lymph nodes, lungs, liver, eyes, skin, or other tissues
      * SjÃ¶gren syndrome, a disorder in which the glands that produce tears and saliva are destroyed
      * Granulomatosis with polyangiitis, an inflammation of the blood vessel

## Symptoms

Symptoms depend on the specific nerves involved, and may include:

      * Loss of bladder or bowel control
      * Loss of sensation in one or more areas of the body
      * Paralysis in one or more areas of the body
      * Tingling, burning, pain, or other abnormal sensations in one or more areas of the body
      * Weakness in one or more areas of the body 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about the
symptoms, focusing on the nervous system.

To diagnose this syndrome, there usually needs to be problems with 2 or more
unrelated nerve areas. Common nerves affected are the:

      * Axillary nerve in either arm and shoulder
      * Common peroneal nerve in the lower leg
      * Distal median nerve to the hand
      * Femoral nerve in the thigh
      * Radial nerve in the arm
      * Sciatic nerve in the back of the leg
      * Ulnar nerve in the arm 

Tests may include:

      * Electromyogram (EMG, a recording of electrical activity in the muscles)
      * Nerve biopsy to examine a piece of the nerve under a microscope
      * Nerve conduction tests to measure how fast nerve impulses move along the nerve
      * Imaging tests, such as x-rays 

Blood tests that may be done include:

      * Antinuclear antibody panel (ANA)
      * Blood chemistry tests
      * C-reactive protein
      * Imaging scans
      * Pregnancy test
      * Rheumatoid factor
      * Sedimentation rate
      * Thyroid tests
      * X-rays 

## Treatment

The goals of treatment are to:

      * Treat the illness that is causing the problem, if possible
      * Provide supportive care to maintain independence
      * Control symptoms 

To improve independence, treatments may include:

      * Occupational therapy
      * Orthopedic help (for example, a wheelchair, braces, and splints)
      * Physical therapy (for example, exercises and retraining to increase muscle strength)
      * Vocational therapy 

Safety is an important for people with sensation or movement problems. Lack of
muscle control and decreased sensation may increase the risk for falls or
injuries. Safety measures include:

      * Having adequate lighting (such as leaving lights on at night)
      * Installing railings
      * Removing obstacles (such as loose rugs that may slip on the floor)
      * Testing water temperature before bathing
      * Wearing protective shoes (no open toes or high heels) 

Check shoes often for grit or rough spots that may injure the feet.

People with decreased sensation should check their feet (or other affected
area) often for bruises, open skin areas, or other injuries that may go
unnoticed. These injuries may become severely infected because the pain nerves
of the area are not signaling the injury.

People with multiple mononeuropathy are prone to new nerve injuries at
pressure points such as the knees and elbows. They should avoid putting
pressure on these areas, for example, by not leaning on the elbows, crossing
the knees, or holding similar positions for long periods.

Medicines that may help include:

      * Over-the-counter or prescription pain drugs
      * Antiseizure or antidepressant drugs to reduce stabbing pains 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

A full recovery is possible if the cause is found and treated, and if the
nerve damage is limited. Some people have no disability. Others have a partial
or complete loss of movement, function, or sensation.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Deformity, loss of tissue or muscle mass
      * Disturbances of organ functions
      * Medicine side effects
      * Repeated or unnoticed injury to the affected area due to lack of sensation
      * Relationship problems due to erectile dysfunction

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you notice signs of multiple mononeuropathy.

## Prevention

Preventive measures depend on the specific disorder. For example, with
diabetes, eating healthy foods and keeping a tight control of blood sugar may
help prevent multiple mononeuropathy from developing.

## Alternative Names

Mononeuritis multiplex; Mononeuropathy multiplex; Multifocal neuropathy;
Peripheral neuropathy - mononeuritis multiplex

## Images

      * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Katirji B. Disorders of peripheral nerves. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 107.

Shy ME. Peripheral neuropathies. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 420.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Peripheral Nerve
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeripheralNerveDisorders_thumb.jpg)Peripheral
Nerve Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

