Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000689.htm    
                                Description: Axillary nerve dysfunction is nerve damage that leads to a loss of movement or sensation in the shoulder.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Axillary nerve dysfunction

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000689.htm

# Axillary nerve dysfunction

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Axillary nerve dysfunction is nerve damage that leads to a loss of movement or
sensation in the shoulder.

## Causes

Axillary nerve dysfunction is a form of peripheral neuropathy. It occurs when
there is damage to the axillary nerve. This is the nerve that helps control
the deltoid muscles of the shoulder and the skin around it. A problem with
just one nerve, such as the axillary nerve, is called mononeuropathy.

The usual causes are:

      * Direct injury
      * Long-term pressure on the nerve
      * Pressure on the nerve from nearby body structures
      * Shoulder injury 

Entrapment creates pressure on the nerve where it passes through a narrow
structure.

The damage can destroy the myelin sheath that covers the nerve or part of the
nerve cell (the axon). Damage of either type reduces or prevents the movement
of signals through the nerve.

Conditions that can lead to axillary nerve dysfunction include:

      * Body-wide (systemic) disorders that cause nerve inflammation
      * Deep infection
      * Fracture of the upper arm bone (humerus)
      * Pressure from casts or splints 
      * Improper use of crutches
      * Shoulder dislocation 

In some cases, no cause can be found.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

      * Numbness over part of the outer shoulder
      * Shoulder weakness, especially when lifting the arm up and away from the body 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine your neck, arm, and shoulder. Weakness
of the shoulder can cause difficulty moving your arm.

The deltoid muscle of the shoulder may show signs of muscle atrophy (loss of
muscle tissue).

Tests that may be used to check axillary nerve dysfunction include:

      * EMG and nerve conduction tests, will be normal right after the injury and should be done several weeks after the injury or symptoms start
      * MRI or x-rays of the shoulder 

## Treatment

Depending on the cause of the nerve disorder, some people do not need
treatment. The problem gets better on its own. The rate of recovery can be
different for everyone. It can take many months to recover.

Anti-inflammatory medicines may be given if you have any of the following:

      * Sudden symptoms
      * Small changes in sensation or movement
      * No history of injury to the area
      * No signs of nerve damage

These medicines reduce swelling and pressure on the nerve. They may be
injected directly into the area or taken by mouth.

Other medicines include:

      * Over-the-counter pain medicines may be helpful for mild pain (neuralgia).
      * Medicines to help reduce stabbing pain.
      * Opiate pain relievers may be needed to control severe pain.

If your symptoms continue or get worse, you may need surgery. If a trapped
nerve is causing your symptoms, surgery to release the nerve may help you feel
better.

Physical therapy can help maintain muscle strength. Job changes, muscle
retraining, or other forms of therapy may be recommended.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

It may be possible to make a full recovery if the cause of the axillary nerve
dysfunction can be identified and successfully treated.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Deformity of the arm, shoulder contracture, or frozen shoulder
      * Partial loss of sensation in the arm (uncommon)
      * Partial shoulder paralysis
      * Repeated injury to the arm 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if you have symptoms of axillary
nerve dysfunction. Early diagnosis and treatment increase the chance of
controlling symptoms.

## Prevention

Preventive measures vary, depending on the cause. Avoid putting pressure on
the underarm area for long periods. Make sure casts, splints, and other
appliances fit properly. When you use crutches, learn how to avoid putting
pressure on the underarm.

## Alternative Names

Neuropathy - axillary nerve

## Images

      * ![Damaged axillary nerve](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8729t.jpg)Damaged axillary nerve

## References

Steinmann SP, Elhassan BT. Nerve problems related to the shoulder. In:
Rockwood CA, Matsen FA, Wirth MA, Lippitt SB, Fehringer EV, Sperling JW, eds.
_Rockwood and Matsen's The Shoulder_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 18.

Taylor KF. Nerve entrapment. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and
Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine: Principles and Practice._ 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 58.

## Review Date 2/28/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Peripheral Nerve
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeripheralNerveDisorders_thumb.jpg)Peripheral
Nerve Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

