Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000593.htm    
                                Description: Peripheral nerves carry information to and from the brain. They also carry signals to and from the spinal cord to the rest of the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Peripheral neuropathy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000593.htm

# Peripheral neuropathy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Peripheral nerves carry information to and from the brain. They also carry
signals to and from the spinal cord to the rest of the body.

Peripheral neuropathy means these nerves don't work properly. Peripheral
neuropathy may occur because of damage to a single nerve or a group of nerves.
It may also affect nerves in the whole body.

## Causes

Neuropathy is very common. There are many types and causes. Often, no cause
can be found. Some nerve diseases run in families.

Diabetes is the most common cause of this type of nerve problem. High blood
sugar levels over a long time can damage your nerves.

Other health conditions that may cause neuropathy are:

      * Autoimmune disorders, such as rheumatoid arthritis or lupus
      * Chronic kidney disease
      * Infections such as HIV/AIDS, shingles, hepatitis C
      * Low levels of vitamin B1, B6, B12, or other vitamins
      * Metabolic disease
      * Poisoning due to heavy metals, such as lead
      * Poor blood flow to the legs
      * Underactive thyroid gland 
      * Bone marrow disorders
      * Tumors
      * Certain inherited disorders

Other things that can lead to nerve damage are:

      * Trauma or pressure on a nerve
      * Long-term, heavy alcohol use
      * Glue, lead, mercury, and solvent poisoning
      * Drugs that treat infections, cancer, seizures, and high blood pressure
      * Pressure on a nerve, such as from carpal tunnel syndrome
      * Being exposed to cold temperatures for a long period of time
      * Pressure from bad-fitting casts, splints, a brace, or crutches 

## Symptoms

Symptoms depend on which nerve is damaged, and whether the damage affectsÂ one
nerve, several nerves, or the whole body.

PAIN AND NUMBNESS

Tingling or burning in the arms and legs may be an early sign of nerve damage.
These feelings often start in your toes and feet. You may have deep pain. This
often happens in the feet and legs.

You may lose feeling in your legs and arms. Because of this, you may not
notice when you step on something sharp. You may not notice when youÂ touch
something that is too hot or cold, like the water in a bathtub. You may not
know when you have a small blister or sore on your feet.

Numbness may make it harder to tell where your feet are moving and can cause a
loss of balance.

MUSCLE PROBLEMS

Damage to the nerves can make it harder to control muscles. It can also cause
weakness. You may notice problems moving a part of your body. You may fall
because your legs buckle. You may trip over your toes.

Doing tasks such as buttoning a shirt may be harder. You may also notice that
your muscles twitch or cramp. Your muscles may become smaller.

PROBLEMS WITH BODY ORGANS

People with nerve damage may have problems digesting food. You may feel full
or bloated and have heartburn after eating only a little food. Sometimes, you
may vomit food that has not been digested well. You may have either loose
stools or hard stools. Some people have problems swallowing.

Damage to the nerves to your heart may cause you to feel lightheaded, or
faint, when you stand up.

Angina is the warning chest pain for heart disease and heart attack. Nerve
damage may "hide" this warning sign. You should learn other warning signs of a
heart attack. They are sudden fatigue, sweating, shortness of breath, nausea,
and vomiting.

OTHER SYMPTOMS OF NERVE DAMAGE

      * Sexual problems. Men may have problems with erections. Women may have trouble with vaginal dryness or orgasm.
      * Some people may not be able to tell when their blood sugar gets too low.
      * Bladder problems. You may leak urine. You may not be able to tell when your bladder is full. Some people are not able to empty their bladder.
      * You may sweat too little or too much. This may cause problems controlling your body temperature.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you and ask about your health history
and symptoms.

Blood tests may be done to look for causes of nerve damage.

The provider may also recommend:

      * ElectromyographyÂ -- to check activity in muscles
      * Nerve conduction studiesÂ -- to see how fast signals travel along nerves
      * Nerve biopsyÂ -- to look at a sample of a nerve under a microscope 

## Treatment

Treating the cause of nerve damage, if known, may improve your symptoms.

People with diabetes should learn to control their blood sugar.

If you use alcohol, stop.

Your medicines may need to be changed. Do not stop taking any medicine before
talking to your provider.

Replacing a vitamin or making other changes in your diet may help. If you have
low levels of B12 or other vitamins, your provider may recommend supplements
or injections.

You may need surgery to remove pressure from a nerve.

You may have therapy to learn exercises to improve muscle strength and
control. Wheelchairs, braces, and splints may improve movement or the ability
to use an arm or leg that has nerve damage.

SETTING UP YOUR HOME

Safety is very important for people with nerve damage. Nerve damage can
increase the risk for falls and other injuries. To stay safe:

      * Remove loose wires and rugs from areas where you walk.
      * Do not keep small pets in your home.
      * Fix uneven flooring in doorways.
      * Have good lighting.
      * Put handrails in the bathtub or shower and next to the toilet. Place a slip-proof mat in the bathtub or shower.

WATCHING YOUR SKIN

Wear shoes at all times to protect your feet from injury. Before you put them
on, always check inside your shoes for stones or rough areas that may hurt
your feet.

Check your feet every day. Look at the top, sides, soles, heels, and between
the toes. Wash your feet every day with lukewarm water and mild soap. Use
lotion, petroleum jelly, lanolin, or oil on dry skin.

Check bathwater temperature with your elbow before putting your feet in the
water.

Avoid putting pressure on areas with nerve damage for too long.

TREATING PAIN

Medicines may help reduce pain in the feet, legs, and arms. They usually do
not bring back loss of feeling. Your provider may prescribe:

      * Pain pills
      * Drugs that treat seizures or depression, which can also manage pain

Your provider may refer you to a pain specialist. Talk therapy may help you
better understand how your pain is affecting your life. It can also help you
learn ways to better cope with pain.

TREATING OTHER SYMPTOMS

Taking medicine, sleeping with your head raised, and wearing elastic stockings
may help with low blood pressure and fainting. Your provider may give you
medicines to help with bowel movement problems. Eating small, frequent meals
may help. To help bladder problems, your provider may suggest that you:

      * Do Kegel exercisesÂ to strengthen your pelvic floor muscles.
      * Use a urinary catheter, a thin tube inserted into your bladder to drain urine.
      * Take medicines.

Medicines can often help with erection problems.

## Support Groups

These resources can provide further information on peripheral neuropathy:

      * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke -- www.ninds.nih.gov/Disorders/Patient-Caregiver-Education/Fact-Sheets/Peripheral-Neuropathy-Fact-Sheet
      * The Foundation for Peripheral Neuropathy -- www.foundationforpn.org/

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you do depends on the cause and duration of nerve damage.

Some nerve-related problems do not interfere with daily life. Others get worse
quickly and may lead to long-term, severe symptoms and problems.

When a medical condition can be found and treated, your outlook may be
excellent. But sometimes, nerve damage can be permanent, even if the cause is
treated.

Long-term (chronic) pain can be a major problem for some people. Numbness in
the feet can lead to skin sores that do not heal. In rare cases, numbness in
the feet may lead to amputation.

There is no cure for most neuropathies that are passed down in families.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of nerve damage. Early treatment
increases the chance of controlling symptoms and preventing more problems.

## Prevention

You can prevent some causes of nerve damage.

      * Avoid alcohol or drink only in moderation. 
      * Follow a balanced diet.
      * Keep good control over diabetes and other medical problems.
      * Learn about chemicals used at your workplace.

## Alternative Names

Peripheral neuritis; Neuropathy - peripheral; Neuritis - peripheral; Nerve
disease; Polyneuropathy; Chronic pain - peripheral neuropathy

## Images

      * ![Nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18125t.jpg)Nervous system
      * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Katirji B. Disorders of peripheral nerves. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 107.

Shy ME. Peripheral neuropathies. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 420.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Peripheral Nerve
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeripheralNerveDisorders_thumb.jpg)Peripheral
Nerve Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

