Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000750.htm    
                                Description: Sensorimotor polyneuropathy is a condition thatÂ causes a decreased ability to move or feel (sensation) because of nerve damage.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sensorimotor polyneuropathy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000750.htm

# Sensorimotor polyneuropathy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sensorimotor polyneuropathy is a condition thatÂ causes a decreased ability to
move or feel (sensation) because of nerve damage.

## Causes

Neuropathy means a disease of, or damage to nerves. When it occurs outside of
the central nervous system (CNS), that is, the brain and spinal cord, it is
called a peripheral neuropathy. Mononeuropathy means one nerve is involved.
Polyneuropathy means that many nerves in different parts of the body are
involved.

Neuropathy can affect nerves that provide feeling (sensory neuropathy) or
cause movement (motor neuropathy). It can also affect both, inÂ which case it
is called a sensorimotor neuropathy.

Sensorimotor polyneuropathy is a bodywide (systemic) process that damages
nerve cells, nerve fibers (axons), and nerve coverings (myelin sheath). Damage
to the covering of the nerve cell causes nerve signals to slow or stop. Damage
to the nerve fiber or entire nerve cell can make the nerve stop working. Some
neuropathies develop over years, while others can start and get severe within
hours to days.

Nerve damage can be caused by:

      * Autoimmune (when the body attacks itself) disorders
      * Conditions that put pressure on nerves
      * Decreased blood flow to the nerve
      * Diseases that destroy the glue (connective tissue) that holds cells and tissues together
      * Swelling (inflammation) of the nerves

Some diseases lead to polyneuropathy that is mainly sensory or mainly motor.
Possible causes of sensorimotor polyneuropathy include:

      * Alcoholic neuropathy
      * Amyloid polyneuropathy
      * Autoimmune disorders, such as SjÃ¶gren syndrome
      * Cancer (called a paraneoplastic neuropathy)
      * Long-term (chronic) inflammatory neuropathy
      * Diabetic neuropathy
      * Drug-related neuropathy, including chemotherapy
      * Guillain-BarrÃ© syndrome
      * Hereditary neuropathy
      * HIV/AIDS  

      * Low thyroid  

      * Parkinson disease  

      * Vitamin deficiency (vitamins B12, B1, and E)
      * Zika virus infection

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

      * Decreased feeling in any area of the body
      * Difficulty swallowing or breathing
      * Difficulty using the arms or hands
      * Difficulty using the legs or feet
      * Difficulty walking
      * Pain, burning, tingling, or abnormal feeling in any area of the body (called neuralgia)
      * Weakness of the face, arms, or legs, or any area of the body 

Symptoms may develop quickly (as in Guillain-BarrÃ© syndrome) or slowly over
weeks to years. Symptoms usually occur on both sides of the body. Most often,
they start at the ends of the toes first.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you and ask about your symptoms. An exam
may show:

      * Decreased feeling (may affect touch, pain, vibration, or position sensation)
      * Diminished reflexes (most commonly the ankle)
      * Muscle atrophy
      * Muscle twitches
      * Muscle weakness
      * Paralysis

Tests may include:

      * Biopsy
      * Blood tests
      * Electrical test of the muscles (EMG)
      * Electrical test of nerve conduction
      * X-rays or other imaging tests

## Treatment

Goals of treatment include:

      * Finding the cause
      * Controlling the symptoms
      * Promoting a person's self-care and independence

Depending on the cause, treatment may include:

      * Changing medicines, if they are causing the problem
      * Controlling blood sugar level, when the neuropathy is from diabetes
      * Not drinking alcohol
      * Taking daily nutritional supplements
      * Medicines to treat the underlying cause of the polyneuropathy

PROMOTING SELF-CARE AND INDEPENDENCE

      * Exercises and retraining to maximize function of the damaged nerves
      * Job (vocational) therapy
      * Occupational therapy
      * Orthopedic treatments
      * Physical therapy
      * Wheelchairs, braces, or splints

CONTROL OF SYMPTOMS

Safety is important for people with neuropathy. Lack of muscle control and
decreased sensation can increase the risk of falls or other injuries.

If you have movement difficulties, these measures can help keep you safe:

      * Leave lights on.
      * Remove obstacles (such as loose rugs that may slip on the floor).
      * Test water temperature before bathing.
      * Use railings.
      * Wear protective shoes (such as those with closed toes and low heels).
      * Wear shoes that have non-slippery soles.

Other tips include:

      * Check your feet (or other affected area) daily for bruises, open skin areas, or other injuries, which you may not notice and can become infected.
      * Check the inside of shoes often for grit or rough spots that may injure your feet.
      * Visit a foot doctor (podiatrist) to assess and reduce the risk of injury to your feet.
      * Avoid leaning on your elbows, crossing your knees, or being in other positions that put prolonged pressure on certain body areas.

Medicines used to treat this condition:

      * Over-the-counter and prescription pain relievers to reduce stabbing pain (neuralgia)
      * Anticonvulsants or antidepressants
      * Lotions, creams, or medicated patches

Use pain medicine only when necessary. Keeping your body in the proper
position or keeping bed linens off a tender body part may help control pain.

## Support Groups

These groups can provide more information about neuropathy.

      * Neuropathy Action Foundation -- www.neuropathyaction.org
      * The Foundation for Peripherial Neuropathy -- www.foundationforpn.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In some cases, you can fully recover from peripheral neuropathy if your
provider can find the cause and successfully treat it, and if the damage does
not affect the entire nerve cell.

The amount of disability varies. Some people have no disability. Others have
partial or complete loss of movement, function, or feeling. Nerve pain may be
uncomfortable and may last for a long time.

In some cases, sensorimotor polyneuropathy causes severe, life-threatening
symptoms.

## Possible Complications

Problems that may result include:

      * Deformity
      * Injury to feet (caused by bad shoes or hot water when stepping into the bathtub)
      * Numbness
      * Pain
      * Trouble walking
      * Weakness
      * Difficulty breathing or swallowing (in severe cases) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have loss of movement or feeling in a part of your
body. Early diagnosis and treatment increase the chance of controlling the
symptoms.

## Alternative Names

Polyneuropathy - sensorimotor

## Images

      * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system
      * ![Nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9693t.jpg)Nervous system

## References

Hurley RW, Henriquez OH, Wu CL. Neuropathic pain syndromes. In: Benzon HT,
Rathmell JP, Wu CL, Turk DC, Argoff CE, Hurley RW, eds. _Practical Management
of Pain_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Mosby; 2014:chap 24.

Katitji B. Disorders of peripheral nerves. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 107.

Ralph JW, Aminoff MJ. Neuromuscular complications of general medical
disorders. In: Aminoff MJ, Josephson SA, eds. _Aminoff's Neurology and General
Medicine_. 5th ed. Walthman, MA: Elsevier Academic Press; 2014:chap 59.

## Review Date 11/22/2017

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery at
Providence Medical Center, Medford, OR; Department of Surgery at Ashland
Community Hospital, Ashland, OR; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at UCSF,
San Francisco, CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 12-10-18: Editorial update.

![Peripheral Nerve
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeripheralNerveDisorders_thumb.jpg)Peripheral
Nerve Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

