Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000691.htm    
                                Description: Distal median nerve dysfunction is a form of peripheral neuropathy that affects the movement of or sensation in the hands.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Distal median nerve dysfunction

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000691.htm

# Distal median nerve dysfunction

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Distal median nerve dysfunction is a form of peripheral neuropathy that
affects the movement of or sensation in the hands.

A common type of distal median nerve dysfunction is carpal tunnel syndrome.

## Causes

Dysfunction of one nerve group, such as the distal median nerve, is called a
mononeuropathy. Mononeuropathy means there is a local cause of the nerve
damage.Â Diseases affecting the entire body (systemic disorders) can also
cause isolated nerve damage.Â

This condition occurs when the nerve is inflamed, trapped, or injured by
trauma. The most common reason is trapping (entrapment). Trapping puts
pressure on the nerve where it passes through a narrow area. Wrist fractures
may injure the median nerve directly. Or, it may increase the risk for
trapping the nerve later on.

Inflammation of the tendons (tendonitis) or joints (arthritis) can also put
pressure on the nerve. Some repetitive movements increase the chance of
developing carpal tunnel entrapment. Women are more affected than men.

Problems that affect the tissue near the nerve or cause deposits to form in
the tissue can block blood flow and lead to pressure on the nerve. Such
conditions include:

      * Too much growth hormone in the body (acromegaly)
      * Diabetes
      * Underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism)
      * Kidney disease
      * Blood cancer calledÂ multiple myeloma
      * Pregnancy 
      * Obesity

In some cases, no cause can be found. Diabetes can make this condition worse.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

      * Pain in the wrist or hand that may be severe and wake you up at night, and that may be felt in other areas, such as the upper arm (this is called referred pain)
      * Sensation changes in the thumb, index, middle, and part of the ring fingers, such as a burning feeling, decreased sensation, numbness and tingling
      * Weakness of the hand that causes you to drop things or have difficulty grasping objects or buttoning a shirt

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine your wrist and ask about your medical
history. Tests that may be done include:

      * Electromyogram (EMG) to check the electrical activity of the muscles
      * Nerve conduction tests to check how fast electrical signals move through a nerve
      * Neuromuscular ultrasound to view problems with the muscles and nerves
      * Nerve biopsy in which nerve tissue is removed for examination (rarely needed)
      * Magnetic resonance neurography (very detailed imaging of the peripheral nerves)

## Treatment

Treatment is aimed at the underlying cause.

If the median nerve is affected by carpal tunnel syndrome, a wrist splint can
reduce further injury to the nerve and help relieve symptoms. Wearing the
splint at night rests the area and decreases inflammation. An injection into
the wrist may help with symptoms, but it won't fix the underlying problem.Â
Surgery may be needed if a splint or medicines don't help.

For other causes, treatment may involve any of the following:

      * Medicines to control nerve pain (such as gabapentin or pregabalin)
      * Treating the medical problem causing nerve damage, such as diabetes or kidney disease
      * Physical therapy to help maintain muscle strength

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If the cause of the nerve dysfunction can be identified and treated, there is
a good chance of full recovery. In some cases, there is some or complete loss
of movement or sensation. Nerve pain may be severe and persist for a long
time.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Deformity of the hand (rare)
      * Partial or complete loss of hand movement
      * Partial or complete loss of sensation in the fingers
      * Recurrent or unnoticed injury to the hand

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of distal median nerve dysfunction.
Early diagnosis and treatment increase the chance of curing or controlling
symptoms.

## Prevention

Prevention varies, depending on the cause. In people with diabetes,
controlling blood sugar may reduce the risk of developing nerve disorders.

For people with jobs that involve repetitive wrist movements, a change in the
way the job is performed may be needed. Frequent breaks in activity may also
help.

## Alternative Names

Neuropathy - distal median nerve

## Images

      * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Craig A, Richardson JK, Ayyangar R. Rehabilitation of patients with
neuropathies. In: Cifu DX, ed. _Braddom's Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 41.

Katirji B. Disorders of peripheral nerves. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 107.

Toussaint CP, Ali ZS, Zager EL. Distal entrapment syndromes: carpal tunnel,
cubital tunnel, peroneal, and tarsal tunnel. In: Winn HR, ed. _Youmans and
Winn Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 249.

Waldman SD. Carpal tunnel syndrome. In: Waldman SD, ed. _Atlas of Common Pain
Syndromes_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 50.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Peripheral Nerve
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeripheralNerveDisorders_thumb.jpg)Peripheral
Nerve Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

