Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000780.htm    
                                Description: Mononeuropathy is damage to a single nerve, which results in loss of movement, sensation, or other function of that nerve.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mononeuropathy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000780.htm

# Mononeuropathy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Mononeuropathy is damage to a single nerve, which results in loss of movement,
sensation, or other function of that nerve.

## Causes

Mononeuropathy is a type of damage to a nerve outside the brain and spinal
cord (peripheral neuropathy).

Mononeuropathy is most often caused by injury. Diseases affecting the entire
body (systemic disorders) can also cause isolated nerve damage.

Long-term pressure on a nerve due to swelling or injury can result in
mononeuropathy. The covering of the nerve (myelin sheath) or part of the nerve
cell (the axon) may be damaged. This damage slows or prevents signals from
traveling through the damaged nerves.

Mononeuropathy may involve any part of the body. Some common forms of
mononeuropathy include:

      * Axillary nerve dysfunction (loss of movement or sensation in the shoulder) 
      * Common peroneal nerve dysfunction (loss of movement or sensation in the foot and leg) 
      * Carpal tunnel syndrome (median nerve dysfunction --Â includingÂ numbness, tingling, weakness, or muscle damage in the hand and fingers) 
      * Cranial mononeuropathy III, IV,Â compression or diabetic type 
      * Cranial mononeuropathy VI (double vision)
      * Cranial mononeuropathy VII (facial paralysis)
      * Femoral nerve dysfunction (loss of movement or sensation in part of the leg)
      * Radial nerve dysfunction (problems with movement in the arm and wrist and with sensation in the back of the arm or hand)
      * Sciatic nerve dysfunction (problem with the muscles of the back of the knee and lower leg, and sensation to the back of the thigh, part of the lower leg, and sole of the foot)
      * Ulnar nerve dysfunction (cubital tunnel syndrome -- includingÂ numbness, tingling, weakness of outer and underside of arm, palm, ring and little fingers)

## Symptoms

Symptoms depend on the specific nerve affected, and may include:

      * Loss of sensation
      * Paralysis
      * Tingling, burning, pain, abnormal sensations
      * Weakness

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and focus on the
affected area. A detailed medical history is needed to determine the possible
cause of the disorder.

Tests that may be done include:

      * Electromyogram (EMG) to check the electrical activity in the muscles
      * Nerve conduction tests (NCV) to check the speed of electrical activity in the nerves
      * Nerve ultrasound to view the nerves
      * X-ray, MRI or CT scan to get an overall view of the affected area
      * Blood tests
      * Nerve biopsy (in case of mononeuropathy due to vasculitis)
      * CSF examination
      * Skin biopsy

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to allow you to use the affected body part as much as
possible.

Some medical conditions make nerves more prone to injury. For example, high
blood pressure and diabetes can injure an artery, which can often affect a
single nerve. So, the underlying condition should be treated.

Treatment options may include any of the following:

      * Over the counter painkillers, such as anti-inflammatory medicines for mild pain
      * Antidepressants, anticonvulsants, and similar medicines for chronic pain
      * Injections of steroid medicines to reduce swelling and pressure on the nerve
      * Surgery to relieve pressure on the nerve
      * Physical therapy exercises to maintain muscle strength
      * Braces, splints, or other devices to help with movement
      * Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) to improve nerve pain associated with diabetes

## Support Groups

The following groups can provide more information and resources:

      * American Diabetes Association -- www.diabetes.org
      * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke -- www.ninds.nih.gov/Disorders/All-Disorders/Peripheral-Neuropathy-Information

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Mononeuropathy may be disabling and painful. If the cause of the nerve
dysfunction can be found and successfully treated, a full recovery is possible
in some cases.

Nerve pain may be uncomfortable and last for a long time.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Deformity, loss of tissue mass
      * Medicine side effects
      * Repeated or unnoticed injury to the affected area due to lack of sensation

## Prevention

Avoiding pressure or traumatic injury may prevent many forms of
mononeuropathy. Treating conditions such as high blood pressure or diabetes
also decreases the risk of developing the condition.

## Alternative Names

Neuropathy; Isolated mononeuritis

## Images

      * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke website. Peripheral
neuropathy fact sheet. www.ninds.nih.gov/Disorders/Patient-Caregiver-
Education/Fact-Sheets/Peripheral-Neuropathy-Fact-Sheet. Updated April 24,
2018. Accessed August 1, 2018.

Shy ME. Peripheral neuropathies. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 420.

Snow DC, Bunney EB. Peripheral nerve disorders. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 97.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Peripheral Nerve
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeripheralNerveDisorders_thumb.jpg)Peripheral
Nerve Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

