Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000777.htm    
                                Description: Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) is a disorder that involves nerve swelling and irritation (inflammation) that leads to a loss of strength or sensation.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000777.htm

# Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) is a disorder that
involves nerve swelling and irritation (inflammation) that leads to a loss of
strength or sensation.

## Causes

CIDP is one cause of damage to nerves outside the brain or spinal cord
(peripheral neuropathy). Polyneuropathy means several nerves are involved.
CIDP often affects both sides of the body.

CIDP is caused by an abnormal immune response. CIDP occurs when the immune
system attacks the myelin cover of the nerves. For this reason, CIDP is
thought to be an autoimmune disease.

Health care providers also consider CIDP as theÂ chronic form of Guillain-
BarrÃ© syndrome.

The specific triggers of CIDP vary. In many cases, the cause cannot be
identified.

CIDP may occur with other conditions, such as:

      * Chronic hepatitis
      * Diabetes
      * Infection with the bacterium _Campylobacter jejuni_  

      * HIV/AIDS
      * Immune system disorders due to cancer
      * Inflammatory bowel disease
      * Systemic lupus erythematosus
      * Cancer of the lymph system
      * Overactive thyroidÂ 
      * Side effects of medicines to treat cancer or HIV

## Symptoms

Symptoms include any of the following:

      * Problems walking due to weakness or lack of feeling in the feet
      * Trouble using the arms and hands or legs and feet due to weakness
      * Sensation changes, such as numbness or decreased sensation, pain, burning, tingling, or other abnormal sensations (usually affects the feet first, then the arms and hands)

Other symptoms that can occur with CIDP include:

      * Abnormal or uncoordinated movement
      * Problems breathing
      * Fatigue
      * Hoarseness or changing voice or slurred speech

## Exams and Tests

The provider will perform a physical exam and ask about the symptoms, focusing
on the nervous system and muscles.

Tests that may be ordered include:

      * Electromyography (EMG) to check the muscles and the nerves that control the muscles
      * Nerve conduction tests to check how fast electrical signals move through a nerve
      * Nerve biopsy to remove a small piece of a nerve for examination
      * Spinal tap (lumbar puncture) to check the fluid that surrounds the brain and spinal cord
      * Blood tests may be done to look for specific proteins that are causing the immune attack on the nerves
      * Lung function tests to check if breathing is affected

Depending on the suspected cause of CIDP, other tests, such as x-rays, imaging
scans, and blood tests, may be done.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to reverse the attack on the nerves. In some cases,
nerves can heal and their function can be restored. In other cases, nerves are
badly damaged and cannot heal, so treatment is aimed at preventing the disease
from getting worse.

Which treatment is given depends on how severe the symptoms are, among other
things. The most aggressive treatment is only given if you have difficulty
walking, breathing, or if symptoms don't allow you to care for yourself or
work.

Treatments may include:

      * Corticosteroids to help reduce inflammation and relieve symptoms
      * Other medicines that suppress the immune system (for some severe cases)
      * Plasmapheresis or plasma exchange to remove antibodies from the blood
      * Intravenous immune globulin (IVIg), which involves adding large numbers of antibodies to the blood plasma to reduce the effect of the antibodies that are causing the problem

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome varies. The disorder may continue long term, or you may have
repeated episodes of symptoms. Complete recovery is possible, but permanent
loss of nerve function is not uncommon.

## Possible Complications

Complications of CIDP include:

      * Pain
      * Permanent decrease or loss of sensation in areas of the body
      * Permanent weakness or paralysis in areas of the body
      * Repeated or unnoticed injury to an area of the body
      * Side effects of medicines used to treat the disorder

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have a loss of movement or sensation in any area of
the body, especially if your symptoms get worse.

## Alternative Names

Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy; Polyneuropathy -
chronic inflammatory; CIDP; Chronic inflammatory polyneuropathy; Guillain-
BarrÃ© - CIDP

## Images

      * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Katirji B. Disorders of peripheral nerves. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 107.

Shy ME. Peripheral neuropathies. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 420.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Peripheral Nerve
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeripheralNerveDisorders_thumb.jpg)Peripheral
Nerve Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

