Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000700.htm    
                                Description: Neuropathy is injury to the peripheral nerves. These are nerves that are not in the brain or spinal cord. Neuropathy secondary to drugs is a loss of sensation or movement in a part of the body due to nerve    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Neuropathy secondary to drugs

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000700.htm

# Neuropathy secondary to drugs

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Neuropathy is injury to the peripheral nerves. These are nerves that are not
in the brain or spinal cord. Neuropathy secondary to drugs is a loss of
sensation or movement in a part of the body due to nerve damage from taking a
certain medicine or combination of medicines.

## Causes

The damage is caused by the toxic effect of a certain medicines on the
peripheral nerves. There may be damage to the axon part of the nerve cell,
which interferes with nerve signals. Or, the damage may involve the myelin
sheath, which insulates the axons and increases the speed of transmission of
signals through the axon.

Most commonly, many nerves are involved (polyneuropathy). This usually causes
sensation changes that begin in the outside parts of the body (distal) and
move toward the center of the body (proximal). There may also be changes in
movement, such as weakness. There may also be burning pain.

Many medicines and substances may lead to development of neuropathy. Examples
are listed below.

Heart or blood pressure drugs:

      * Amiodarone
      * Hydralazine
      * Perhexiline

Drugs used to fight cancer:

      * Cisplatin
      * Docetaxel
      * Paclitaxel
      * Suramin
      * Vincristine

Drugs used to fight infections:

      * Chloroquine
      * Dapsone
      * Isoniazid (INH), used against tuberculosis
      * Metronidazole (Flagyl)
      * Nitrofurantoin
      * Thalidomide (used to fight leprosy)

Drugs used to treat autoimmune disease:

      * EtanerceptÂ (Enbrel)
      * InfliximabÂ (Remicade)
      * LeflunomideÂ (Arava)

Drugs used to treat seizures:

      * Carbamazepine
      * Phenytoin
      * Phenobarbital

Anti-alcohol drugs:

      * Disulfiram

Drugs to fight HIV/AIDS:

      * Didanosine (Videx)
      * Emtricitabine (Emtriva)  

      * Stavudine (Zerit)
      * Tenofovir and emtricitabine (Truvada)

Other drugs and substances that may cause neuropathy include:

      * Colchicine (used to treat gout)
      * Disulfiram (used to treat alcohol use)
      * Arsenic
      * Gold

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

      * Numbness, loss of sensation
      * Tingling, abnormal sensations
      * Weakness 
      * Burning pain

Sensation changes usually begin in the feet or hands and move inward.

## Exams and Tests

A brain and nervous system examination will be done.

Other tests include:

      * Blood tests to check levels of the medicine (even normal blood levels of certain drugs may be toxic in older adults or certain other people)
      * EMGÂ (electromyography) and nerve conduction test of the electrical activity of nerves and muscles

## Treatment

Treatment is based on the symptoms and how severe they are. The drug causing
the neuropathy may be stopped, reduced in dose, or changed to another drug.
(Never change any drug without first talking to your health care provider.)

Your provider may suggest the following drugs to help control pain:

      * Over-the-counter pain relievers may be helpful for mild pain (neuralgia).
      * Phenytoin, carbamazepine, gabapentin, pregabalin, duloxetine, or tricyclic antidepressants such as nortriptyline may reduce the stabbing pains some people experience.
      * Opiate pain relievers, such as morphine or fentanyl, may be needed to control severe pain.

There are currently no medicines that can reverse the loss of sensation. If
you have lost sensation, you may need to take safety measures to avoid injury.

Ask your provider if there are exercises that can help relieve your symptoms.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Many people can partially or fully return to their normal function. The
disorder does not usually cause life-threatening complications, but it can be
uncomfortable or disabling.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

      * Inability to function at work or home because of permanent loss of sensation
      * Pain with tingling in the area of the nerve injury
      * Permanent loss of sensation (or rarely, movement) in an area 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have a loss of sensation or movement of any area of
the body while taking any medicine.

## Prevention

Your provider will closely monitor your treatment with any drug that may cause
neuropathy. The goal is to keep the proper blood level of the drug needed to
control the disease and its symptoms while preventing the drug from reaching
toxic levels.

## Images

      * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Jones MR, Urits I, Wolf J, et al. Drug-induced peripheral neuropathy, a
narrative review. _Curr Clin Pharmacol_. January 2019. PMID: 30666914
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30666914.

Katirji B. Disorders of peripheral nerves. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 107.

O'Connor KDJ, Mastaglia FL. Drug-induced disorders of the nervous system. In:
Aminoff MJ, Josephson SA, eds. _Aminoff's Neurology and General Medicine_. 5th
ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier Academic Press; 2014:chap 32.

## Review Date 2/28/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Peripheral Nerve
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeripheralNerveDisorders_thumb.jpg)Peripheral
Nerve Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

