Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003199.htm    
                                Description: Walking abnormalities are unusual and uncontrollable walking patterns. They are usually due to diseases or injuries to the legs, feet, brain, spinal cord, or inner ear.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Walking abnormalities

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003199.htm

# Walking abnormalities

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Walking abnormalities are unusual and uncontrollable walking patterns. They
are usually due to diseases or injuries to the legs, feet, brain, spinal cord,
or inner ear.

## Considerations

The pattern of how a person walks is called the gait. Different types of
walking problems occur without a person's control. Most, but not all, are due
to a physical condition.

Some walking abnormalities have been given names:

      * Propulsive gait -- a stooped, stiff posture with the head and neck bent forward
      * Scissors gait -- legs flexed slightly at the hips and knees like crouching, with the knees and thighs hitting or crossing in a scissors-like movement
      * Spastic gait -- a stiff, foot-dragging walk caused by a long muscle contraction on one side
      * Steppage gait -- foot drop where the foot hangs with the toes pointing down, causing the toes to scrape the ground while walking, requiring someone to lift the leg higher than normal when walking
      * Waddling gait -- a duck-like walk that may appear in childhood or later in life
      * Ataxic, or broad-based, gait -- feet wide apart with irregular, jerky, and weaving or slapping when trying to walk
      * Magnetic gait -- shuffling with feet feeling as if they stick to the ground 

## Causes

Abnormal gait may be caused by diseases in different areas of the body.

General causes of abnormal gait may include:

      * Arthritis of the leg or foot joints
      * Conversion disorder (a mental disorder)
      * Foot problems (such as a callus, corn, ingrown toenail, wart, pain, skin sore, swelling, or spasms)
      * Broken bone
      * Injections into muscles that causes soreness in the leg or buttocks
      * Infection
      * Injury
      * Legs that are of different lengths
      * Inflammation or swelling of the muscles (myositis)
      * Shin splints
      * Shoe problems
      * Inflammation or swelling of the tendons (tendinitis)
      * Torsion of the testis
      * Brain, spinal cord, and peripheral nerves diseases

This list does not include all causes of abnormal gait.

CAUSES OF SPECIFIC GAITS

Propulsive gait:

      * Carbon monoxide poisoning
      * Manganese poisoning
      * Parkinson disease
      * Use of certain drugs, including phenothiazines, haloperidol, thiothixene, loxapine, and metoclopramide (usually, drug effects are temporary) 

Spastic or scissors gait:

      * Brain abscess
      * Brain or head trauma
      * Brain tumor
      * Stroke
      * Cerebral palsy
      * Cervical spondylosis with myelopathy (a problem with the vertebrae in the neck)
      * Liver failure
      * Multiple sclerosis (MS)
      * Pernicious anemia (condition in which there aren't enough healthy red blood cells to provide oxygen to body tissues)
      * Spinal cord trauma
      * Spinal cord tumor
      * Neurosyphilis (bacterial infection of the brain or spinal cord due to syphilis)
      * Syringomyelia (collection of cereberospinal fluid that forms in the spinal cord) 

Steppage gait:

      * Guillain-Barre syndrome
      * Herniated lumbar disk
      * Multiple sclerosis
      * Muscle weakness of the tibia
      * Peroneal neuropathy
      * Polio
      * Spinal cord injury 

Waddling gait:

      * Congenital hip dysplasia
      * Muscular dystrophy (group of inherited disorders that cause muscle weakness and loss of muscle tissue)
      * Muscle disease (myopathy)
      * Spinal muscle atrophy

Ataxic, or broad-based, gait:

      * Acute cerebellar ataxia (uncoordinated muscle movement due to disease or injury to the cerebellum in the brain)
      * Alcohol intoxication
      * Brain injury
      * Damage to nerve cells in the cerebellum of the brain (cerebellar degeneration)
      * Medicines (phenytoin and other seizure medicines)
      * Polyneuropathy (damage to many nerves, as occurs with diabetes)
      * Stroke 

Magnetic gait:

      * Disorders that affect the front part of the brain
      * Hydrocephalus (swelling of the brain) 

## Home Care

Treating the cause often improves the gait. For example, gait abnormalities
from trauma to part of the leg will improve as the leg heals.

Physical therapy almost always helps with short-term or long-term gait
disorders. Therapy will reduce the risk of falls and other injuries.

For an abnormal gait that occurs with conversion disorder, counseling and
support from family members are strongly recommended.

For a propulsive gait:

      * Encourage the person to be as independent as possible.
      * Allow plenty of time for daily activities, especially walking. People with this problem are likely to fall because they have poor balance and are always trying to catch up.
      * Provide walking assistance for safety reasons, especially on uneven ground.
      * See a physical therapist for exercise therapy and walking retraining.

For a scissors gait:

      * People with a scissors gait often lose skin sensation. Skin care should be used to avoid skin sores.
      * Leg braces and in-shoe splints can help keep the foot in the right position for standing and walking. A physical therapist can supply these and provide exercise therapy, if needed.
      * Medicines (muscle relaxers, anti-spasticity medicines) can reduce the muscle overactivity.

For a spastic gait:

      * Exercises are encouraged.
      * Leg braces and in-shoe splints can help keep the foot in the right position for standing and walking. A physical therapist can supply these and provide exercise therapy, if needed.
      * A cane or a walker is recommended for those with poor balance.
      * Medicines (muscle relaxers, anti-spasticity medicines) can reduce the muscle overactivity.

For a steppage gait:

      * Get enough rest. Fatigue can often cause a person to stub a toe and fall.
      * Leg braces and in-shoe splints can help keep the foot in the right position for standing and walking. A physical therapist can supply these and provide exercise therapy, if needed.

For a waddling gait, follow the treatment your health care provider
prescribed.

For a magnetic gait due to hydrocephalus, walking may improve after the brain
swelling is treated.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If there is any sign of uncontrollable and unexplained gait abnormalities,
call your provider.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will take a medical history and perform a physical examination.

Medical history questions may include:

      * Time pattern, such as when the problem started, and if it came on suddenly or gradually 
      * Type of gait disturbance, such as any of those mentioned above 
      * Other symptoms, such as pain and its location, paralysis, whether there's been a recent infection 
      * What medicines are being taken 
      * Injury history, such as leg, head, or spinal injury 
      * Other illnesses such as polio, tumors, stroke or other blood vessel problems
      * If there have been recent treatments such as vaccinations, surgery, chemotherapy or radiation therapy 
      * Self and family history, such as birth defects, diseases of the nervous system, growth problems, problems of the spine 

The physical examination will include muscle, bone, and nervous system
examination. The provider will decide which tests to do based on the results
of the physical examination.

## Alternative Names

Gait abnormalities

## References

Magee DJ. Assessment of gait. In: Magee DJ, ed. _Orthopedic Physical
Assessment_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 14.

Thompson PD, Nutt JG. Gait disorders. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC,
Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 24.

## Review Date 3/13/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Walking
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/WalkingProblems_thumb.jpg)Walking
Problems _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

