Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001504.htm    
                                Description: An ovarian cyst is a sac filled with fluid that forms on or inside an ovary.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ovarian cysts

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001504.htm

# Ovarian cysts

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An ovarian cyst is a sac filled with fluid that forms on or inside an ovary.

This article is about cysts that form during your monthly menstrual cycle,
called functional cysts. Functional cysts are not the same as cysts caused by
cancer or other diseases. The formation of these cysts is a perfectly normal
event and is a sign that the ovaries are working well.

## Causes

Each month during your menstrual cycle, a follicle (cyst) grows on your ovary.
The follicle is where an egg is developing.

      * The follicle makes the estrogen hormone. This hormone causes normal changes of the uterine lining as the uterus prepares for pregnancy.
      * When the egg matures, it is released from the follicle. This is called ovulation.
      * If the follicle fails to break open and release an egg, the fluid stays in the follicle and forms a cyst. This is called a follicular cyst.

Another type of cyst occurs after an egg has been released from a follicle.
This is called a corpus luteum cyst. This type of cyst may contain a small
amount of blood. This cyst releases progesterone and estrogen hormones.

Ovarian cysts are more common in the childbearing years between puberty and
menopause. The condition is less common after menopause.

Taking fertility drugs often causes the development of multiple follicles
(cysts) in the ovaries. These cysts most often go away after a woman's period,
or after a pregnancy.

Functional ovarian cysts are not the same as ovarian tumors or cysts due to
hormone-related conditions such as polycystic ovary syndrome.

## Symptoms

Ovarian cysts often cause no symptoms.

An ovarian cyst is more likely to cause pain if it:

      * Becomes large
      * Bleeds
      * Breaks open
      * Interferes with the blood supply to the ovary
      * Is bumped during sexual intercourse
      * Is twisted or causes twisting (torsion) of the ovary

Symptoms of ovarian cysts can also include:

      * Bloating or swelling in the abdomen
      * Pain during bowel movements
      * Pain in the pelvis shortly before or after beginning a menstrual period
      * Pain with intercourse or pelvic pain during movement
      * Pelvic pain -- constant, dull aching
      * Sudden and severe pelvic pain, often with nausea and vomiting (may be a sign of torsion or twisting of the ovary on its blood supply, or rupture of a cyst with internal bleeding)

Changes in menstrual periods are not common with follicular cysts. These are
more common with corpus luteum cysts. Spotting or bleeding may occur with some
cysts.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider may find a cyst during a pelvic exam, or when you
have an ultrasound test for another reason.

Ultrasound may be done to detect a cyst. Your provider may want to check you
again in 6 to 8 weeks to make sure it is gone.

Other imaging tests that may be done when needed include:

      * CT scan
      * Doppler flow studies
      * MRI

The following blood tests may be done:

      * CA-125 test, to look for possible cancer if you have an abnormal ultrasound or are in menopause 
      * Hormone levels (such as LH, FSH, estradiol, and testosterone) 
      * Pregnancy test (Serum hCG)

## Treatment

Functional ovarian cysts often do not need treatment. They often go away on
their own within 8 to 12 weeks.

If you have frequent ovarian cysts, your provider may prescribe birth control
pills (oral contraceptives). These pills may reduce the risk of developing new
cysts. Birth control pills do not decrease the size of current cysts.

You may need surgery to remove the cyst or ovary to make sure that it is not
ovarian cancer. Surgery is more likely to be needed for:

      * Complex ovarian cysts that do not go away
      * Cysts that are causing symptoms and do not go away
      * Cysts that are increasing in size
      * Simple ovarian cysts that are larger than 10 centimeters
      * Women who are near menopause or past menopause

Types of surgery for ovarian cysts include:

      * Exploratory laparotomy
      * Pelvic laparoscopy

You may need other treatments if you have polycystic ovary syndrome or another
disorder that can cause cysts.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Cysts in women who are still having periods are more likely to go away. A
complex cyst in a woman who is past menopause has a higher risk of being
cancer. Cancer is very unlikely with a simple cyst.

## Possible Complications

Complications have to do with the condition causing the cysts. Complications
can occur with cysts that:

      * Bleed.
      * Break open.
      * Show signs of changes that could be cancer.
      * Twist, depending on size of the cyst. Bigger cysts carry a higher risk. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

      * You have symptoms of an ovarian cyst
      * You have severe pain
      * You have bleeding that is not normal for you 

Also call your provider if you have had following on most days for at least 2
weeks:

      * Getting full quickly when eating
      * Losing your appetite
      * Losing weight without trying 

These symptoms may indicate ovarian cancer. Studies which encourage women to
seek care for possible ovarian cancer symptoms have not shown any benefit.
Unfortunately, we do not have any proven means of screening for ovarian
cancer.

## Prevention

If you are not trying to get pregnant and you often get functional cysts, you
can prevent them by taking birth control pills. These pills prevent follicles
from growing.

## Alternative Names

Physiologic ovarian cysts; Functional ovarian cysts; Corpus luteum cysts;
Follicular cysts

## Images

      * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1112t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy
      * ![Ovarian cysts](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17108t.jpg)Ovarian cysts
      * ![Uterus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19263t.jpg)Uterus
      * ![Uterine anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9988t.jpg)Uterine anatomy

## References

Bulun SE. Physiology and pathology of the female reproductive axis. In: Melmed
S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 17.

Dolan MS, Hill C, Valea FA. Benign gynecologic lesions: vulva, vagina, cervix,
uterus, oviduct, ovary, ultrasound imaging of pelvic structures. In: Lobo RA,
Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 18.

Zagoria RJ, Dyer R, Brady C. The female genital tract. In: Zagoria RJ, Dyer R,
Brady C, eds. _Genitourinary Imaging: The Requisites_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 7.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ovarian Cysts](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OvarianCyst2_thumb.jpg)Ovarian
Cysts _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

