Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000024.htm    
                                Description: Aphasia is loss of the ability to understand or express spoken or written language. It commonly occurs after strokes or traumatic brain injuries. It can also occur in people with brain tumors or degenerative    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Communicating with someone with aphasia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000024.htm

# Communicating with someone with aphasia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Aphasia is loss of the ability to understand or express spoken or written
language. It commonly occurs after strokes or traumatic brain injuries. It can
also occur in people with brain tumors or degenerative diseases that affect
the language areas of the brain.

Use the tips below for improving communication with someone who has aphasia.

## What to Expect at Home

People who have aphasia have language problems. They may have trouble saying
and/or writing words correctly. This type of aphasia is called expressive
aphasia. People who have it may understand what another person is saying. If
they do not understand what is being said, or if they cannot understand
written words, they have what is called receptive aphasia. Some people have a
combination of both types of aphasia.

Expressive aphasia may be non-fluent, in which case a person has trouble:

      * Finding the right words
      * Saying more than 1 word or phrase at a time
      * Speaking overall 

Another kind of expressive aphasia is fluent aphasia. People who have fluent
aphasia may be able to put many words together. But what they say may not make
sense. They are often unaware that they are not making sense.

People who have aphasia may become frustrated:

      * When they realize others cannot understand them
      * When they cannot understand others
      * When they cannot find the right words 

Speech and language therapists can work with people who have aphasia and their
family or caregivers to improve their ability to communicate.

The most common cause of aphasia is stroke. Recovery may take up to 2 years,
though not everyone fully recovers. Aphasia may also be due to the brain
losing function, such as with Alzheimer disease. In such cases, aphasia will
not get better.

## Improving Daily Communication

There are many ways to help people with aphasia.

Keep distractions and noise down.

      * Turn off the radio and TV.
      * Move to a quieter room.

Talk to people who have aphasia in adult language. Do not make them feel as if
they are children. Do not pretend to understand them if you do not.

If a person with aphasia cannot understand you, do not shout. Unless the
person also has a hearing problem, shouting will not help. Make eye contact
when talking to the person.

When you ask questions:

      * Ask questions so they can answer you with "yes" or "no."
      * When possible, give clear choices for possible answers. But do not give them too many choices.
      * Visual cues are also helpful when you can give them.

When you give instructions:

      * Break down instructions into small and simple steps.
      * Allow time for the person to understand. Sometimes this can be a lot longer than you expect.
      * If the person becomes frustrated, consider changing to another activity.

You can encourage the person with aphasia to use other ways to communicate,
such as:

      * Pointing
      * Hand gestures
      * Drawings

It may help a person with aphasia, as well as their caregivers, to have a book
with pictures or words about common topics or people so that communication is
easier.

Always try to keep people with aphasia involved in conversations. Check with
them to make sure they understand. But do not push too hard for them to
understand, since this may cause more frustration.

Do not try to correct people with aphasia if they remember something
incorrectly.

Begin to take people with aphasia out more, as they become more confident.
This will allow them to practice communicating and understanding in real-life
situations.

When leaving someone with speech problems alone, make sure the person has an
ID card that:

      * Has information on how to contact family members or caregivers
      * Explains the person's speech problem and how best to communicate

Consider joining support groups for people with aphasia and their families.

## Alternative Names

Stroke - aphasia; Speech and language disorder - aphasia

## References

Dobkin BH. Rehabilitation and recovery of the patient with stroke. In: Grotta
JC, Albers GW, Broderick JP, et al, eds. _Stroke: Pathophysiology, Diagnosis,
and Management_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 58.

Kirschner HS. Aphasia and aphasic syndromes. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 13.

Page S. Guide to living with aphasia. _Arch Phys Med Rehabil_.
2013;94(8):1643-1644. PMID: 24049797 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24049797.

## Read More

      * Alzheimer disease
      * Brain aneurysm repair
      * Brain surgery
      * Dementia
      * Stroke

## Patient Instructions

      * Brain aneurysm repair - discharge
      * Brain surgery - discharge
      * Communicating with someone with dysarthria
      * Dementia and driving
      * Dementia - behavior and sleep problems
      * Dementia - daily care
      * Dementia - keeping safe in the home
      * Dementia - what to ask your doctor 
      * Stroke - discharge 

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Aphasia

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

