Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000881.htm    
                                Description: If you have been in the hospital, you will receive a bill listing the charges. Hospital bills can be complex and confusing. While it may seem hard to do, you should look closely at the bill and ask questions    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Understanding your hospital bill

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000881.htm

# Understanding your hospital bill

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If you have been in the hospital, you will receive a bill listing the charges.
Hospital bills can be complex and confusing. While it may seem hard to do, you
should look closely at the bill and ask questions if you see something you do
not understand.

Here are some tips for reading your hospital bill and suggestions for what to
do if you find an error. Looking closely at your bill may help you save money.

## Charges Listed on Your Hospital Bill

A hospital bill will list the major charges from your visit. It lists the
services you received (such as procedures and tests), as well as medicines and
supplies. Most of time, you will get a separate bill for health care provider
fees. It is a good idea to ask for a more detailed hospital bill with all of
the charges described separately. That can help you make sure the bill is
correct.

If you have insurance, you may also get a form from your insurance company,
called an Explanation of Benefits (EOB). This is not a bill. It explains:

      * What is covered by your insurance
      * Amount of payment made and to whom
      * Deductibles or coinsurance

A deductible is the amount of money you must pay each year to cover your
medical care expenses before your insurance policy starts to pay. Coinsurance
is the amount you pay for medical care after you have met your health
insurance deductible. It is often given as a percentage.

The information on the EOB should match your hospital bill. If it does not, or
there is something you do not understand, call your insurance company.

## Check Your Charges

Errors on your medical bill can cost you money. So it is worth the time to
check your bill. Check the following items carefully:

      *  **Dates and number of days.** Check that the dates on the bill match when you were in the hospital. If you were admitted after midnight, make sure the charges start on that day. If you are discharged in the morning, check that you are not charged for the full daily room rate.
      *  **Number errors.** If a fee seems too high, check that there are no extra zeros added after a number (for example, 1,500 instead of 150).
      *  **Double charges.** Make sure you are not billed twice for the same service, medicine, or supplies.
      *  **Medicine charges.** If you brought your medicines from home, check that you were not charged for them. If a provider prescribed a generic drug, make sure you are not billed for the brand-name version.
      *  **Charges for routine supplies.** Question charges for things such as gloves, gowns, or sheets. They should be part of the hospital's general costs.
      *  **Costs of reading tests or scans.** You should be charged only once, unless you got a second opinion.
      *  **Cancelled work or medicines.** Sometimes, a provider orders tests, procedures, or medicines that are later cancelled. Check that these items are not on your bill.

## A Fair Price

If you had surgery or another procedure, it helps to know whether your
hospital charged a fair price. There are some websites you can use to help you
find this information. They use national databases of billed medical services.
You enter the name of the procedure and your zip code to find an average or
estimated price in your area.

      * Healthcare Bluebook -- www.healthcarebluebook.com
      * FAIR Health -- www.fairhealth.org

If the charge on your bill is higher than the fair price or higher than what
other hospitals charge, you can use the information to ask for a lower fee.

## Ask Questions

If you do not understand a charge on your bill, many hospitals have financial
counselors to help you with your bill. They can help explain the bill in clear
language. If you find a mistake, ask the billing department to correct the
error. Keep a record of the date and time you called, the name of the person
you spoke to, and what you were told.

If you find an error and do not feel you are getting the help you need,
consider hiring a medical-billing advocate. Advocates charge an hourly fee or
a percentage of the amount of money you save as a result of their review.

## Get Help Paying Your Bill

If you cannot pay your bill in full before the due date, you may have options.
Ask the hospital billing department if you can:

      * Get a discount if you pay the full amount in cash
      * Work out a payment plan
      * Get financial aid from the hospital 

## References

American Academy of Family Physicians. Understanding your medical bills.
familydoctor.org/understanding-your-medical-bills. Updated February 27, 2018.
Accessed August 13, 2018.

American Hospital Association website. AHA policies & guidelines on billing,
collections, tax-exempt status, and community health.
www.aha.org/system/files/content/00-10/07nov-billingpolicyguidelines.pdf.
Updated May 5, 2012. Accessed August 13, 2018.

FAIR Health Consumer website. Understanding your medical bill.
www.fairhealthconsumer.org/insurance-basics/your-bill/how-to-review-your-
medical-bill. Accessed August 13, 2018.

## Review Date 8/3/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Health Insurance

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

