Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000879.htm    
                                Description: Most insurance companies offer different types of health plans. And when you are comparing plans, it can sometimes seem like alphabet soup. What is the difference between an HMO, PPO, POS, and EPO? Do    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Understanding health insurance plans

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000879.htm

# Understanding health insurance plans

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Most insurance companies offer different types of health plans. And when you
are comparing plans, it can sometimes seem like alphabet soup. What is the
difference between an HMO, PPO, POS, and EPO? Do they offer the same coverage?

This guide to health plans can help you understand each type of plan. Then you
can more easily choose the right plan for you and your family.

## Types of Health Insurance Plans

Depending on how you get your health insurance, you may have a choice of
different types of plans.

 **Health Maintenance Organizations (HMOs).** These plans offer a network of
health care providers and low monthly premiums. The providers have a contract
with the health plan. This means they charge a set rate for services. You will
choose a primary care provider. This person will manage your care and refer
you to specialists. If you use providers, hospitals, and other providers from
the plan's network, you pay less out of pocket. If you use providers outside
of the network, you will have to pay more.

 **Exclusive Provider Organizations (EPOs).** These are plans that offer
networks of providers and low monthly premiums. You must use the providers and
hospitals from the network list to keep your out-of-pocket costs low. If you
see providers outside of the network, your costs will be much higher. With
EPOs, you do not need a primary care provider to manage your care and give you
referrals.

 **Preferred Provider Organizations (PPOs).** PPOs offer a network of
providers and the choice to see providers outside of the network for a bit
more money. You do not need a primary care provider to manage your care. You
will pay more in premiums for this plan compared to an HMO, but you have a bit
more freedom to see providers inside and outside the network without the need
for referrals.

 **Point-of-Service (POS) Plans.** POS plans are like a PPO. They offer both
in-network and out-of-network benefits. You can see any in-network providers
without a referral. But you DO need a referral to see out-of-network
providers. You may save some money in monthly premiums with this type of plan
compared to a PPO.

 **High Deductible Health Plans (HDHPs).** This type of plan offers low
monthly premiums and high yearly deductibles. A HDHP may be one of the plan
types above with a high deductible. A deductible is a set amount of money you
have to pay before your insurance starts to pay. For 2015, HDHPs have a
deductible of $1,300 per person and $2,600 per family per year or more. People
with these plans often get a medical savings or reimbursement account. This
helps you save money for the deductible and other out-of-pocket costs. It can
also help you save money on taxes.

 **Fee for service (FFS)** plans are not as common today. These plans offer
freedom to see any provider or hospital of your choice. The plan pays a set
amount for each service, and you pay the rest. You do not need referrals.
Sometimes, you pay for the service up front, file a claim, and the plan
reimburses you. This is a costly health insurance plan when it does not
include a network or PPO option.

 **Catastrophic plans** offer benefits for basic services and major illness or
injury. They protect you from the cost of a major accident or illness. These
plans do not have good coverage for people with health problems who need
regular care or tests. You can only buy a catastrophic plan if you are under
age 30 years or can prove you cannot afford health coverage. The monthly
premiums are low, but the deductibles for these plans are quite high. As an
individual, your deductible may be about $6,000. You will need to pay the high
deductible before the insurance starts paying.

## What is Right for me?

When choosing a plan, think about your medical needs and preferences. In
addition to the plan type, make sure you compare the benefits, out-of-pocket
costs, and provider network for a good fit.

## References

AHIP Foundation. A consumer guide to understanding health plan networks.
www.ahip.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/08/ConsumerGuide_PRINT.20.pdf.Â Accessed
January 21, 2020.

Healthcare.gov website. How to pick a health insurance plan. Health insurance
plan & network types: HMOs, PPOs, and more. www.healthcare.gov/choose-a-
plan/plan-types. Accessed August 13, 2018.

Henry J Kaiser Family Foundation. Understanding health insurance.
www.kff.org/understanding-health-insurance. Accessed August 13, 2018.

## Review Date 8/3/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update
on 01/21/20.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Health Insurance

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

