Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000864.htm    
                                Description: As health insurance changes, out-of-pocket costs continue to grow. With special savings accounts, you can set aside tax-exempt money for your health care expenses. This means you will pay no or reduced    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Savings account for health care costs

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000864.htm

# Savings account for health care costs

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

As health insurance changes, out-of-pocket costs continue to grow. With
special savings accounts, you can set aside tax-exempt money for your health
care expenses. This means you will pay no or reduced taxes on the money in the
accounts.

## Types of Accounts

The following options may be available to you:

      * Health Savings Account (HSA)
      * Medical Savings Account (MSA)
      * Flexible Spending Arrangement (FSA)
      * Health Reimbursement Arrangement (HRA) 

Your employer may provide these options, and some of them may be set up on
your own. More people are using these accounts every year.

These accounts are approved or regulated by the Internal Revenue Service
(IRS). The accounts differ based on how much money you can save and how the
funds are used.

## Health Savings Accounts (HSA)

An HSA is a bank account you use to save money for medical expenses. The
amount you can set aside changes from year to year. Some employers contribute
money into your HSA as well. You can keep the money in the account for as long
as you want. In 2018, the contribution limit was $3,450 for a single person.

A bank or insurance company usually holds the money for you. They are called
HSA trustees, or custodians. Your employer may have information about them for
you. If your employer manages the account, you may be able to have pre-tax
dollars put into the account. If you open one yourself, you can deduct the
expenses when you file your taxes.

With HSAs, you can:

      * Claim a tax deduction on the savings
      * Earn tax-free interest
      * Deduct the qualified medical expenses you pay for
      * Transfer the HSA to a new employer or yourself if you change jobs

Also, you can carry over unused funds into the next year. After age 65 years,
you can take out the savings in your HSA for non-medical expenses, without
penalty.

People in high deductible health plans (HDHP) qualify for an HSA. HDHPs have
higher deductibles than other plans. To be considered an HDHP, your plan has
to have deductibles that meet a certain dollar amount. For 2018, this amount
is over $1,350 for a single person. The amount changes slightly every year.

## Medical Savings Accounts (MSA)

MSAs are accounts very much like HSAs. However, MSAs are for people who are
self-employed and employees of small businesses (less than 50 employees), and
their spouses. The amount you can set aside depends on your yearly income and
health plan deductible.

Like an HSA, a bank or insurance company holds the savings. But with MSAs,
either you or your employer can put money into the account, but not both in
the same year.

With MSAs, you can:

      * Claim a tax deduction on the savings
      * Earn tax-free interest
      * Deduct the qualified medical expenses you pay for
      * Transfer the MSA to a new employer or yourself if you change jobs 

## Flexible Spending Arrangements (FSA)

An FSA is a pre-tax savings account offered by an employer for any type of
health plan. You can use the money to be reimbursed for medical expenses.
Self-employed individuals cannot get an FSA.

With an FSA, you agree to have your employer put part of your pre-tax salary
into an account. Your employer also may contribute to the account, and it is
not part of your gross income.

You do not need to file tax documents for your FSA. When you take money out of
the account for qualified medical expenses, it is tax free. Like a credit
line, you can use the account before you have put funds in the account.

Any unused funds do not roll over to the next year. So you will lose any money
you put into the account if you do not use it by the end of the year. You also
cannot take an FSA with you if you change jobs.

## Health Reimbursement Arrangement (HRA)

An HRA is a simple arrangement offered by an employer for any type of health
plan. It does not require a separate bank account and tax reporting. There is
no tax advantage to this type of account.

Your employer funds an amount of their choosing and sets up the features of
the arrangement. Your employer decides which out-of-pocket medical expenses
qualify and offers reimbursement for those expenses when you use health care.
HRAs can be set up for any type of health plan.

If you change jobs, the HRA funds do not move with you. Where HSAs are
attached to you, HRAs are attached to the employer.

## Alternative Names

Health savings accounts; Flexible spending accounts; Medical savings accounts;
Health reimbursement arrangements; HSA; MSA; Archer MSA; FSA; HRA

## References

Department of the Treasury - Internal Revenue Service. Health savings accounts
and other tax-favored health plans. www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/p969.pdf. Accessed
August 10, 2018.

HealthCare.gov website. Health savings account (HSA).
www.healthcare.gov/glossary/health-savings-account-hsa. Accessed August 10,
2018.

US Department of the Treasury. Health savings accounts (HSAs).
www.treasury.gov/resource-center/faqs/taxes/pages/health-savings-
accounts.aspx. Accessed August 10, 2018.

## Review Date 8/3/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Health Insurance

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

