Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000861.htm    
                                Description: When it comes to getting health insurance, you may have more than one option. Many employers offer more than one plan. If you are buying from the Health Insurance Marketplace, you may have several plans    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

How to choose a health plan

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000861.htm

# How to choose a health plan

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

When it comes to getting health insurance, you may have more than one option.
Many employers offer more than one plan. If you are buying from the Health
Insurance Marketplace, you may have several plans to choose from. How do you
know what to choose? Most health plans have similar features.

This guide can help you understand how to compare your options, so you get the
services you need for a price that fits your budget.

## Key Features to Compare

While most plans have many of the same features, there are differences you
should be aware of.

 **Premiums.** This is the amount you pay for health insurance. You might pay
it monthly, quarterly, or once a year. You have to pay it no matter what
services you use. Your employer will collect your premiums from your paycheck.
You might pay them directly yourself.

 **Out-of-pocket costs.** These include copayments (copays), deductibles, and
co-insurance. These are costs you pay out-of-pocket for certain services. Your
health plan pays the rest. You may have to pay a certain amount out of pocket
before your health plan will start to pay for the cost of your care.

 **Benefits.** These are the health services covered by the plan. Thanks to
health care reform, most plans must now cover the same basic services. This
includes preventive care, hospital care, maternity care, mental health care,
lab tests, and prescription drugs. Some services like chiropractic, dental, or
vision care may not be fully covered. Also, some plans cover only certain
prescription drugs, or charge different copays.

 **Provider network.** Many plans have a provider network. These providers
have contracts with the plan. They provide services for a set price. Your out-
of-pocket costs are lower when you use network providers.

 **Freedom of choice.** Some plans give you the freedom to make appointments
with other providers. With other plans, you need to get a referral from your
primary care doctor to see a specialist. Many plans also give you the choice
to use out-of-network providers, but at a higher cost. Keep in mind that
premiums and out-of-pocket costs also may be higher in plans that allow you to
see out-of-network providers.

 **Paperwork.** For some plans, you may need to file claims. If you have a
medical savings account for out-of-pocket costs, you may need to keep track of
your balance. You also may need to do some paperwork for tax purposes.

## How to Compare Health Plans

Employers and government sites, such as the Marketplace, provide information
for each plan. You may be given a booklet that compares all of your choices.
You may also be able to compare plans online. When reviewing each plan:

      * Add up the cost of premiums for the year.
      * Think about how many services you and your family may use in a year. Add up what your out-of-pocket costs may be for each service. Check the maximum amount you have to pay for each plan. You may never reach the maximum if you use fewer services.
      * Check if your providers and hospitals are in the plan network. If not, see how much more you need to pay to see an out-of-network provider. Also find out if you need referrals.
      * Check to see if you will be covered for special services you might need, such as dental or vision care. Make sure any prescription drugs are covered by your plan.
      * Add your premium, your out-of-pocket costs, cost for prescriptions, and any extra costs to get a total for the year.
      * See how much paperwork and self-management comes with your plan. Think about how much time and interest you have in managing these tasks.
      * Find out if there are special discounts to your local gym or weight loss program, or other health programs that you might like to use.

Taking the time to go over your options and compare costs are well worth it to
make sure you get a health plan that suits your needs and your wallet.

## References

Healthcare.gov website. How to pick a health insurance plan.
www.healthcare.gov/choose-a-plan/comparing-plans. Accessed August 10, 2018.

USA.gov website. Finding health insurance. www.usa.gov/finding-health-
insurance. Accessed August 10, 2018.

## Review Date 8/3/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Health Insurance

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

