Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000878.htm    
                                Description: All health insurance plans include out-of-pocket costs. These are costs that you have to pay for your care, such as copayments and deductibles. The insurance company pays the rest. You need to pay some    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools
      * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support

      * Health Topics
      * Drugs & Supplements
      * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Understanding your health care costs

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000878.htm

# Understanding your health care costs

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

All health insurance plans include out-of-pocket costs. These are costs that
you have to pay for your care, such as copayments and deductibles. The
insurance company pays the rest. You need to pay some out-of-pocket costs at
the time of your visit. Others may be billed to you after your visit.

Out-of-pocket costs allow health plans to share medical costs with you. They
can also help guide you to make good decisions about where and when to get
care.

When you choose a health plan, you need to understand what your out-of-pocket
costs may be. This way, you can plan ahead for what you may need to spend
during the year. You also might be able to look for ways to save money on out-
of-pocket costs.

## Out-of-Pocket Costs

The good news is there is a limit to how much you may have to pay out-of-
pocket. Your plan has an "out-of-pocket maximum." Once you reach that amount,
you will not have to pay any more out-of-pocket costs for the year.

You will still have to pay a monthly premium, no matter what services are
used.

All plans are different. Plans may include all or only some of these ways to
share costs with you:

      *  **Copayment.** This is the payment you make for certain health care provider visits and prescriptions. It is a set amount, like $15. Your plan may also include different copayment (copay) amounts for preferred vs. non-preferred drugs. This can range from $10 to $60 or more.
      *  **Deductible.** This is the total amount you have to pay for medical services before your health insurance will start to pay. For example, you may have a plan with a $1,250 deductible. You will need to pay $1,250 out-of-pocket during the plan year before your insurance company will start to make payments.
      *  **Coinsurance.** This is a percentage you pay for each visit or service. For example, 80/20 plans are common. For an 80/20 plan, you pay 20% of the cost for each service you receive. The plan pays the remaining 80% of the cost. Coinsurance may begin after you have paid your deductible. Keep in mind that your plan may have a maximum allowable limit for each cost of service. Sometimes providers charge more, and you may have to pay that extra amount as well as your 20%.
      *  **Out-of-pocket maximum.** This is the maximum amount of co-pays, deductible, and coinsurance you will have to pay in a plan year. Once you reach your out-of-pocket maximum, the plan pays 100%. You will no longer have to pay coinsurance, deductibles, or other out-of-pocket costs.

## Services With Out-of-Pocket Costs

In general, you do not pay anything for preventive services. These include
vaccines, annual well visits, flu shots, and health screening tests.

You may need to pay some form of out-of pocket costs for:

      * Emergency care
      * Inpatient care
      * Provider visits for an illness or injury, such as an ear infection or knee pain
      * Specialist care
      * Imaging or diagnostic visits, such as x-rays or MRIs
      * Rehab, physical or occupational therapy, or chiropractic care
      * Mental health, behavioral health, or substance abuse care
      * Hospice, home health, skilled nursing, or durable medical equipment
      * Prescription drugs
      * Dental and eye care (if offered by your plan)

## Ways to Save

Choose the right type of health plan based on your location, health, and other
preferences. Get to know your benefits, such as how they relate to emergency
room visits and network providers.

Choose a primary care provider who helps guide you to only the tests and
procedures you need. Also ask about lower-cost facilities and medicines.

Understanding your health care costs can help you save money when managing
your care.

## References

HealthCare.gov website. Understanding your health coverage.
www.healthcare.gov/blog/understanding-your-health-coverage. Accessed August
13, 2018.

HealthCare.gov website. Your total costs for health care: premium, deductible
& out-of-pocket costs. www.healthcare.gov/choose-a-plan/your-total-costs.
Accessed August 13, 2018.

## Review Date 8/3/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

      * Health Insurance

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

      * About MedlinePlus
      * What's New
      * Site Map
      * Customer Support
      * Get updates
      * Subscribe to RSS
      * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

      * Disclaimers
      * Copyright
      * Privacy
      * Accessibility
      * Guidelines for Links
      * Viewers & Players
      * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
      * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

