Link: https://medlineplus.gov/connect/technical.html    
                                Description: Learn technical quick facts for MedlinePlus Connect, compare implementation options for the web application and web service, and see the Acceptable Use Policy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

You Are Here:

Home ->

MedlinePlus Connect ->

Technical Information

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/connect/technical.html

# MedlinePlus Connect: Technical Information

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

MedlinePlus Connect is available as a Web application or a Web service.

Sign up for the MedlinePlus Connect email list to keep up with developments
and exchange ideas with your colleagues. It's the best way for us to keep you
informed of updates and enhancements. Please tell us if you implement
MedlinePlus Connect by  contacting us.

## Technical Quick Facts:

    * MedlinePlus Connect is an API provided by the National Library of Medicine. It is available as a Web application or a Web service. 
    * MedlinePlus Connect will update and maintain the responses to code requests. The possible types of queries and reponses are described on the How it Works page. 
      * Queries are URL-based. Connect uses the GET method not POST.
      * Only one code can be submitted per request.
    * Supports the HL7 Context-Aware Knowledge Retrieval (Infobutton) standard. 
    * Connects using HTTPS connections. 
    * A personal health record (PHR) or electronic health record (EHR) vendor may activate MedlinePlus Connect at an enterprise level so it is available to all users. 
    * Health IT managers, such as at hospital systems or health care providers, may implement MedlinePlus Connect in their system if they have the administrative rights to make these adjustments. 

For detailed implementation instructions, request parameters, demonstrations,
and examples, go to the

    * Web Application Technical Information Page
    * Web Service Technical Information Page

## MedlinePlus Connect Implementation Options

### Web Application

**How does it work?**

    * Responds to requests with an on-demand, formatted MedlinePlus Connect Web page 
    * The page is responsively-designed, has a toggle button for Spanish/English (when appropriate), and includes images for most problem code responses. 
    * Web Application demonstration

**Technical Details and Demonstrations**

    * Web Application Technical Information page -- Includes implementation instructions and information. 
    * Web Application demonstration page -- Includes examples of MedlinePlus Connect Web Application response pages. 

### Web Service

**How does it work?**

    * Responds to requests with XML, JSON, or JSONP, which implementers can use to incorporate MedlinePlus information and links into any health IT interface 
    * It is a REST-based Web Service 
    * The implementer may select which MedlinePlus links and information to provide from within the system instead of automatically providing a link to the standard MedlinePlus Connect response page 
    * Web Service demonstration

**Technical Details and Demonstrations**

    * Web Service Technical Information page -- Includes implementation instructions and information. 
    * Web Service demonstration page -- Includes examples of responses generated by the Web service. 

## Acceptable Use Policy

In order to avoid overloading the MedlinePlus servers, NLM requires that users
of MedlinePlus Connect send no more than 100 requests per minute per IP
address. Requests that exceed this limit will not be serviced, and service
will not be restored for 300 seconds or until the request rate falls beneath
the limit, whichever comes later. To limit the number of requests that you
send to Connect, NLM recommends caching results for a 12-24 hour period.

This policy is in place to ensure that the service remains available and
accessible to all users. If you have a specific use case that requires you to
send a large number of requests to MedlinePlus Connect, and thus exceed the
request rate limit outlined in this policy, please contact us. NLM staff will
evaluate your request and determine if an exception may be granted. Please
also review the MedlinePlus XML files documentation. These XML files contain
complete health topic records and can serve as an alternate method of
accessing MedlinePlus data.

## More Information

    * How MedlinePlus Connect Works
    * Demonstrations -- Web application and Web service
    * Technical information for developers 
    * Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
    * MedlinePlus Connect email list
    * Contact MedlinePlus Connect 

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 5 June 2019

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

