Link: https://medlineplus.gov/prostatecancerscreening.html    
                                Description: Prostate cancer screening tests include the PSA. Read more; then talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits, and whether you should be screened.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Prostate Cancer Screening

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/prostatecancerscreening.html

#  Prostate Cancer Screening

On this page

### Basics

    * Summary
    * Start Here

### Learn More

    * Related Issues
    * Specifics
    * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

    * No links available

### Research

    * Clinical Trials
    * Journal Articles

### Resources

    * Reference Desk
    * Find an Expert

### For You

    * Patient Handouts

## Summary

The prostate is the gland below a man's bladder that produces fluid for semen.
Cancer screening is looking for cancer before you have any symptoms. Cancer
found early may be easier to treat.

There is no standard screening test for prostate cancer. Researchers are
studying different tests to find those with the fewest risks and most
benefits. One test is the digital rectal exam (DRE). The doctor or nurse
inserts a lubricated, gloved finger into your rectum to feel the prostate for
lumps or anything unusual. Another test is the prostate-specific antigen (PSA)
blood test. Your PSA level may be high if you have prostate cancer. It can
also be high if you have an enlarged prostate (BPH) or other prostate
problems. If your screening results are abnormal, your doctor may do more
tests, such as an ultrasound, MRI, or a biopsy.

Prostate cancer screening has risks:

    * Finding prostate cancer may not improve your health or help you live longer
    * The results can sometimes be wrong
    * Follow-up tests, such as a biopsy, may have complications

You and your doctor should discuss your risk for prostate cancer, the pros and
cons of the screening tests, and whether you should get them.

## Start Here

    * American Cancer Society Recommendations for Prostate Cancer Early Detection (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * Prostate Cancer Screening ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

    * BRCA Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Can Prostate Cancer Be Found Early? (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
    * Risks of Prostate Cancer Screening ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * Screening for Prostate Cancer (U.S. Preventive Services Task Force) \- PDF
    * Should I Get Screened for Prostate Cancer? (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

    * Digital Rectal Exam (DRE) (American Society of Clinical Oncology) Also in Spanish
    * Prostate Biopsy (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Prostate Cancer Screening: Should You Get a PSA Test? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
    * Prostate-Specific Antigen (PSA) Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
    * Prostate-Specific Antigen (PSA) Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
    * PSA Test: What's It for? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
    * Screening Tests for Prostate Cancer (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Genetics

    * Genetics Home Reference: prostate cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Clinical Trials

    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Digital Rectal Examination ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
    * ClinicalTrials.gov: Prostate-Specific Antigen ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

    * Article: Diagnostic Properties of Total and Free Prostate-Specific Antigen to Predict Overall...
    * Article: Stratification based on adverse laboratory/pathological features for predicting overall survival in...
    * Article: Cost-effectiveness analysis of PSA-based mass screening: Evidence from a randomised controlled...
    * Prostate Cancer Screening -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

    * About the Prostate (Prostate Cancer Foundation)
    * Dictionary of Cancer Terms ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Find an Expert

    * American Cancer Society
    * Find a Cancer Doctor (American Society of Clinical Oncology)
    * Find a Urologist (Urology Care Foundation)
    * National Cancer Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
    * Prostate Cancer Foundation

## Patient Handouts

    * Digital rectal exam (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Prostate biopsy (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * Prostate cancer screenings (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
    * PSA (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Prostate Cancer
Screening](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ProstateCancerScreening.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

    * Digital rectal exam
    * Prostate biopsy
    * Prostate cancer screenings
    * PSA

## Related Health Topics

    * Prostate Cancer

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Prostate Cancer Screening is the
National Cancer Institute

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Prostate Cancer
Screening_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 2 April 2020 Topic last reviewed: 5 June 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

