

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Opioid Overdose

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# Opioid Overdose

Minus

Related Pages

![](/drugoverdose/images/data/2018-Overdose-67K-Opioid-70percent_flexslider.png)

![Training Module 12](/drugoverdose/images/home-
flexslider/training_module_nurses_flex_JK.png)

![](/drugoverdose/images/home-flexslider/FlexSliderCCQI.png)

The number of **drug overdose deaths decreased by 4% from 2017 to 2018**.

Still more than **67,000 people died from drug overdoses in 2018** , making it
a leading cause of injury-related death in the United States.

Of those deaths, **almost 70% involved a prescription or illicit opioid**.

What Can You Do to Prevent Opioid Overdose Deaths?

The Public

![public icon](/drugoverdose/images/icons/icon_public.png)

Learn more about opioids. Help protect yourself and your loved ones from
opioid abuse, addiction, and overdose.

States

![states icon](/drugoverdose/images/icons/icon_states.png)

Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs are among the most promising state-level
interventions.

Healthcare Providers

![providers icon](/drugoverdose/images/icons/icon_providers.png)

CDC's opioid prescribing guideline for chronic pain helps primary care
providers offer safer, more effective care.

CDC's Work to Prevent Opioid Overdose Deaths

 **CDC is committed to an approach that protects the public 's health and
prevents opioid overdose deaths.**

In the News

                    * CDC MMWR: Drug and Opioid-Involved Overdose Deaths - United States, 2017-2018
                    * Drug-Free Communities: Nearly $25M Available to Substance Use Prevention Coalitions
                    * Feature: America's Drug Overdose Epidemic: Data to Action 
                    * Feature: Talk to Your Doctor About Managing Your Pain
                    * 2018 Annual Surveillance Report of Drug Related Risks and Outcomespdf icon
                    * CDC Vital Signs: Life-Saving Naloxone from Pharmacies
                    * More CDC Publications

More

Evidence-Based Strategies

![Guideline for Prescribing Opioids for Chronic Pain
www.cdc.gov](/drugoverdose/images/pdf-tns/2018-evidence-based-strategies-
small.png)

Ten opioid overdose prevention strategiespdf icon for public heath, law
enforcement, local organizations, and others striving to serve their
community.

Learn more about Promising State Strategies.

HHS Efforts

The United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) is committed
to addressing opioid abuse, dependence, and overdose. HHS has developed a
five-point comprehensive strategy: (1) **better data** , (2) **better pain
treatment** , (3) **more addiction prevention** , **treatment** , **and
recovery services** , (4) **more overdose reversers** , and (5) **better
research**.

Several agencies within HHS have joined the effort.  
external iconexternal icon

This site contains information on opioids. To see more of CDC's work on other
substances, visit the CDC A-Z index.

![CDC Guideline for Prescribing Opioids for Chronic
Pain](/drugoverdose/images/persistent-content-
area/FooterGraphicAssessManageMonitor.jpg)

Page last reviewed: March 19, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Injury Prevention and Control

home Opioid Overdose

                    * Opioid Basics expand
                      * Understanding the Epidemic
                      * Commonly Used Terms
                      * Prescription Opioids
                      * Heroin
                      * Fentanyl
                    * Data expand
                      * Data Analysis and Resources
                      * Drug Overdose Deaths
                      * Nonfatal Drug Overdoses expand
                        * CDCâs ESOOS Program
                        * All Drugs
                        * All Opioids
                        * Case Definition
                      * Prescription Opioids expand
                        * Overview
                        * Prescribing Practices
                        * Overdose Death Maps
                        * Overdose Death Urbanicity Graphs
                      * U.S. Prescribing Rate Maps
                      * Heroin Overdose
                      * Synthetic Opioid Overdose
                      * Fentanyl Encounters Data
                      * Other Drugs
                    * Overdose Prevention expand
                      * Improve Opioid Prescribing
                      * Prevent Opioid Use Disorder
                      * Treat Opioid Use Disorder
                      * Reverse Overdose
                      * Help and Resources
                      * CDCâs Role
                    * Information for Patients expand
                      * Know Your Options
                      * Expectations for Opioid Therapy
                      * Prevent Opioid Misuse
                      * Helpful Materials
                      * Frequently Asked Questions
                      * Rx Awareness Campaign
                    * Information for Providers expand
                      * Guideline Overview
                      * Guideline Resources expand
                        * QI and Care Coordination
                        * Clinical Tools
                        * Posters
                        * Videos
                        * Mobile App
                      * Training for Providers expand
                        * Interactive Training Series
                        * Webinar Series
                      * PDMP Overview for Providers
                      * Research & Activities
                      * Frequently Asked Questions
                    * State Information expand
                      * Overdose Data to Action
                      * Promising State Strategies
                      * Prevention for States
                      * Enhanced State Opioid Overdose Surveillance
                      * Data-Driven Prevention Initiative
                      * What States Need to Know about PDMPs
                      * State Prescription Drug Laws
                      * State Successes
                    * CDC Publications expand
                      * Journal Articles
                      * CDC Vital Signs
                      * Related Publications
                      * MMWR Articles
                      * Guides and Meeting Reports
                      * PBSS Data Briefs
                    * Resource Center expand
                      * PressroomÂ 
                      * Shareable Graphics expand
                        * Overdose Graphics
                        * Prescribing Graphics
                        * Illicit Opioid Graphics
                        * Rx Opioid Videos
                        * Rx Awareness Videos
                        * General Videos
                      * Microsite
                      * Data Resources
                      * Additional HHS Resources
                      * Rx Awareness Campaign

email_03Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this topic, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

![Prescription opioids can be addictive and dangerous. Prescribed. Addicted.
Lost job. Lost home. Overdosed. Prescription opioids: it only takes a little
to lose a lot. Learn more
cdc.gov](/drugoverdose/images/rxawareness/300x250_V4_RELEASE.gif)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

