

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

About CDC 24-7

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# Office of the Chief Operating Officer

Minus

Related Pages

#### Sherri A. Berger, MSPH

![Sherri A. Berger, MSPH, Chief Operating Officer,
CDC](/about/images/leadership/leaders/coo.jpg)

As CDC's COO, Berger is committed to the following goals:

**Customer Service** : Provide high quality services and solutions that are
timely, accurate, and meet mission needs

**Efficiency** : Implement business practices and services with cost-effective
strategies that ensure OCOO is a model for efficient government operations

**Effectiveness** : Provide compliant, high-quality services

**Healthy Enterprise** : Be a desired employer that attracts develops and
retains a skilled and diverse workforce

**Sherri A.  Berger, MSPH,** became Chief Operating Officer of the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), one of 10 major operating divisions of
the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), in August 2011. As COO, she
oversees management, facilities, and operations at the Atlanta-based public
health agency. She provides substantial strategic direction for CDC's
workforce and budget, while ensuring CDC has proper resources to fulfill its
critical work to save lives and protect people from health threats.

Specifically, Berger manages CDC's budget; oversees facilities design,
maintenance, security, management analysis, and safety and personnel security;
leads acquisitions, contractual assistance and grants; manages information
technology and security; and directs human resources strategy, training, and
workplace development.

Berger's oversight and management as Chief Operating Officer has intensified
CDC's business services by:

                    * Transitioning the agency's business services offices from a direct appropriation to the Working Capital Fund
                    * Consolidating the agency's financial management functions into a single Office of Financial Resources to ensure fiscal accountability, oversight, and ensure compliance with external and internal controls
                    * Consolidating five offices responsible for a broad portfolio of crosscutting services, including safety and security, to effectively deliver a safe, secure functional, and healthy workplace for CDC staff
                    * Ensuring the agency's information technology portfolio is current and state-of-the art with a customer-driven focus
                    * Serving as a champion for the Federal Employee Viewpoint Survey, using results to drive agency improvements to better serve CDC staff and the public they serve

Berger is a manager with extensive experience at both the program and senior
leadership level. She began her federal career in 1996 as one of four graduate
students selected nationwide to participate in the CDC/Association of Schools
of Public Health Experimental Learning Program. Berger worked as an
epidemiologist at the community level until moving to CDC headquarters in
Atlanta to serve as a principal epidemiologic investigator. As a result of her
management at the program level, she was nominated to participate in the
Senior Executive Service Candidate Development Program, where she expanded her
career into business management. Berger has held several leadership positions
at CDC, including associate director for formulation, evaluation, and analysis
in CDC's Financial Management Office, deputy director of one of CDC's national
centers, and director of the agency's Recovery Act Coordination Unit.

Berger received her bachelor's in political science from the University of
Florida and a master's of science in public health with a concentration in
epidemiology from the University of South Florida. She enjoys traveling,
reading, and spending time with her son.

Page last reviewed: August 27, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home About CDC 24-7

                    * Leadershipplus icon
                      * Director
                      * Principal Deputy Director
                      * CDC Staff Officesplus icon
                        * Office of the Associate Director for Communication (OADC) 
                        * Office of the Associate Director for Policy and Strategy (OADPS)
                        * Chief Medical Officer
                        * Office of the Chief of Staff (OCS)
                        * Office of the Chief Operating Officer (OCOO)
                        * CDC Washington Office
                        * Office of Equal Employment Opportunity (OEEO)
                      * National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)
                      * Public Health Service and Implementation Science (PHSIS)plus icon
                        * Office of Minority Health and Health Equity (OMHHE)
                        * Center for Global Health (CGH)
                        * Center for Preparedness and Response (CPR) 
                        * Center for State, Tribal, Local, and Territorial Support (CSTLTS)
                      * Public Health Science and Surveillance (PHSS)plus icon
                        * Office of Science (OS)
                        * Office of Laboratory Science and Safety (OLSS)
                        * Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Laboratory Services (CSELS)
                        * National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS)
                      * Non-Infectious Diseases (NID)plus icon
                        * National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (NCBDDD)
                        * National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion (NCCDPHP)
                        * National Center for Environmental Health/Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry* (NCEH/ATSDR)
                        * National Center for Injury Prevention and Control (NCIPC)
                      * Infectious Diseases (ID)plus icon
                        * National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD)
                        * National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)
                        * National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention (NCHHSTP)
                      * Past Directors
                    * Speakers Bureauplus icon
                      * Request a Speaker
                      * CDC Director: Speaker Request
                      * Community & School Eventsplus icon
                        * Community Relations
                    * CDC Organizationplus icon
                      * Mission, Role and Pledgeplus icon
                        * Pledge to the American People
                      * Organization Chart
                      * Official Mission Statements & Organizational Charts
                    * A Bold Promise to the Nationplus icon
                      * CDC Strategic Frameworkplus icon
                        * 2019 Progress Report
                      * Securing Global Health
                      * Eliminating Disease 
                      * Ending Epidemics
                      * 2019 CDC Funding
                      * Watch CDC @Work
                      * I Am CDC â Meet the Staff
                    * Fact of the Weekplus icon
                      * Fact of the Week Archives
                    * Business Practicesplus icon
                      * CDC Foundation
                    * Laboratory Science & Safety
                    * Diversity and Inclusion Management
                    * History
                    * More About CDCplus icon
                      * Zika Response & Success Stories
                      * 2014 Ebola Outbreak Responseplus icon
                        * Ebola Report
                      * CDC Archivesplus icon
                        * Advisory Committees

Features Media

Social_round_rss RSS Sign up for Features

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Related Links

                    * CDC Newsroom
                    * CDC Timeline
                    * Gateway to Health
                    * Ethics Program

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

