

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

About CDC 24-7

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# Center for State, Tribal, Local, and Territorial Support (CSTLTS)

Minus

Related Pages

#### Jose T. Montero, MD, MHCDS

![Deputy Director, Office for State, Tribal, Local, and Territorial Support
\(OSTLTS\)](/about/images/leadership/leaders/ostlts.jpg)

Jose T. Montero, MD, MHCDS, is the Director of the Center for State, Tribal,
Local, and Territorial Support, where he oversees support to the US health
departments and those serving tribal nations and insular areas. He provides
leadership for key activities and technical assistance designed to improve the
public health system's capacity and performance to achieve the nation's goals
in population health. With his team, Dr. Montero leads efforts to create
communities of practice where CDC's senior leaders work with the executive
leaders of the public health jurisdictions, key partners, and stakeholders to
identify new, improved, or innovative strategies to prepare the public health
system to respond to changing environments.

Previously, Dr. Montero served as vice president of population health and
health system integration at Cheshire Medical Center/Dartmouth-Hitchcock
Keene. In that capacity, he helped the healthcare system advance its Healthy
Monadnock population health strategy. Key components of this process were
improved partnerships with all organizations engaged in addressing social
determinants of health for the population served and development of a
sustainability pathway for the region's population health strategy.

For seven years, Dr. Montero served as director of the Division of Public
Health Services at the New Hampshire Department of Health and Human Services
(DHHS). In that role, he led the delivery of high-quality, evidence-based
services and prompt response to public health threats and emerging issues in
the state. Dr. Montero was credited with maintaining New Hampshire's
reputation as one of America's healthiest states. He oversaw the development
and implementation of policies that advanced a healthier population, as well
as the development of the state public health improvement plan and its
implementation at the regional level. Under his leadership, DHHS developed a
systematic approach for collecting, using, and disseminating actionable data
and improved coordination between public health and health care. In New
Hampshire, Dr. Montero also served as chief of New Hampshire's Bureau of
Communicable Disease Control, deputy director for public health emergency
preparedness and response, and state epidemiologist.

Dr. Montero has extensive experience in public health leadership and in the
prevention and control of infectious diseases. His major academic and practice
interests are related to social determinants of health, public health systems,
and the integration of public health and population approaches into clinical
practice.

Dr. Montero has held many national and regional committee leadership
positions, including serving as president of the board of directors of the
Association of State and Territorial Health Officials (ASTHO) and chair of
ASTHO's Infectious Diseases Policy Committee. He worked closely with CDC as a
member of the board of scientific advisors for the Office of Infectious
Diseases, as a member of the Social Determinants of Health Think Tank, a
subgroup of the STLT Subcommittee to the Advisory Committee to the Director of
CDC, and as a member of the CDC Advisory Committee to the Director of CDC to
prevent tuberculosis in healthcare settings. He has also served on the federal
Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, the National Academy for State
Health Policy, the National Academies of Medicine, Sciences, and Engineering
Roundtable on Population Health Improvement, the New Hampshire Citizens Health
Initiative, Dartmouth Medical School's Leadership Preventive Medicine
Residency Advisory Committee, and the Foundation for Healthy Communities.

Dr. Montero holds a medical degree from the Universidad Nacional de Colombia.
He specialized in family medicine and completed his residency at the
Universidad del Valle in Cali, Colombia. He also holds an epidemiology degree
from Pontificia Universidad Javeriana in Bogota, Colombia, received his
certification of field epidemiology from the Colombia Field Epidemiology
Training Program and a master's of healthcare delivery science from Dartmouth
College.

Page last reviewed: April 1, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home About CDC 24-7

                    * Leadershipplus icon
                      * Director
                      * Principal Deputy Director
                      * CDC Staff Officesplus icon
                        * Office of the Associate Director for Communication (OADC) 
                        * Office of the Associate Director for Policy and Strategy (OADPS)
                        * Chief Medical Officer
                        * Office of the Chief of Staff (OCS)
                        * Office of the Chief Operating Officer (OCOO)
                        * CDC Washington Office
                        * Office of Equal Employment Opportunity (OEEO)
                      * National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)
                      * Public Health Service and Implementation Science (PHSIS)plus icon
                        * Office of Minority Health and Health Equity (OMHHE)
                        * Center for Global Health (CGH)
                        * Center for Preparedness and Response (CPR) 
                        * Center for State, Tribal, Local, and Territorial Support (CSTLTS)
                      * Public Health Science and Surveillance (PHSS)plus icon
                        * Office of Science (OS)
                        * Office of Laboratory Science and Safety (OLSS)
                        * Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Laboratory Services (CSELS)
                        * National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS)
                      * Non-Infectious Diseases (NID)plus icon
                        * National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (NCBDDD)
                        * National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion (NCCDPHP)
                        * National Center for Environmental Health/Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry* (NCEH/ATSDR)
                        * National Center for Injury Prevention and Control (NCIPC)
                      * Infectious Diseases (ID)plus icon
                        * National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD)
                        * National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)
                        * National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention (NCHHSTP)
                      * Past Directors
                    * Speakers Bureauplus icon
                      * Request a Speaker
                      * CDC Director: Speaker Request
                      * Community & School Eventsplus icon
                        * Community Relations
                    * CDC Organizationplus icon
                      * Mission, Role and Pledgeplus icon
                        * Pledge to the American People
                      * Organization Chart
                      * Official Mission Statements & Organizational Charts
                    * A Bold Promise to the Nationplus icon
                      * CDC Strategic Frameworkplus icon
                        * 2019 Progress Report
                      * Securing Global Health
                      * Eliminating Disease 
                      * Ending Epidemics
                      * 2019 CDC Funding
                      * Watch CDC @Work
                      * I Am CDC â Meet the Staff
                    * Fact of the Weekplus icon
                      * Fact of the Week Archives
                    * Business Practicesplus icon
                      * CDC Foundation
                    * Laboratory Science & Safety
                    * Diversity and Inclusion Management
                    * History
                    * More About CDCplus icon
                      * Zika Response & Success Stories
                      * 2014 Ebola Outbreak Responseplus icon
                        * Ebola Report
                      * CDC Archivesplus icon
                        * Advisory Committees

Features Media

Social_round_rss RSS Sign up for Features

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Related Links

                    * CDC Newsroom
                    * CDC Timeline
                    * Gateway to Health
                    * Ethics Program

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

