

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

About CDC 24-7

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS)

Minus

Related Pages

#### Brian C. Moyer, PhD

![Director, National Center for Health Statistics
\(NCHS\)](/about/images/leadership/leaders/nchs.jpg)

**Brian C. Moyer, PhD** , is the Director for the National Center for Health
Statistics (NCHS), which is the nation's principal source for health
statistical information to guide actions and policies to improve the health of
people.  In this role, he is responsible for providing leadership for a wide-
range of programs, including research and analysis in health and vital
statistics, epidemiology, and related health and statistical sciences.

Dr. Moyer recently served as the Director of the Bureau of Economic Analysis
(BEA) where he oversaw BEA's production of official economic statistics and
the collection and publishing of economic data and research and analysis.  He
is a proven leader within the nation's statistical community and brings a
wealth of knowledge and extensive experience to NCHS. He has nearly three
decades of experience at BEA in the U.S. Department of Commerce, which,
alongside NCHS, is one of the principal statistical agencies.

Throughout his career, he has excelled in leading the transformation of data
collection and analysis systems to maximize their effectiveness, utility, and
value.  He has overseen innovation efforts to modernize statistical concepts,
methods, and operations, including expanded use of "big data" and associated
platforms.  His leadership of collaborative scientific research has made full
use of new methodologies and data sources to develop statistical products,
including machine learning algorithms, artificial intelligence, administrative
data, and private industry data sources.  He has worked alongside the academic
community to continuously improve statistical concepts and techniques.

Dr. Moyer received a bachelor's and master's degrees in economics from the
University of Maryland. He holds a PhD in economics from American University
and is a recipient of numerous awards for his management and leadership
skills, as well as for improvements to BEA's economic accounts.

Page last reviewed: April 1, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home About CDC 24-7

                    * Leadershipplus icon
                      * Director
                      * Principal Deputy Director
                      * CDC Staff Officesplus icon
                        * Office of the Associate Director for Communication (OADC) 
                        * Office of the Associate Director for Policy and Strategy (OADPS)
                        * Chief Medical Officer
                        * Office of the Chief of Staff (OCS)
                        * Office of the Chief Operating Officer (OCOO)
                        * CDC Washington Office
                        * Office of Equal Employment Opportunity (OEEO)
                      * National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)
                      * Public Health Service and Implementation Science (PHSIS)plus icon
                        * Office of Minority Health and Health Equity (OMHHE)
                        * Center for Global Health (CGH)
                        * Center for Preparedness and Response (CPR) 
                        * Center for State, Tribal, Local, and Territorial Support (CSTLTS)
                      * Public Health Science and Surveillance (PHSS)plus icon
                        * Office of Science (OS)
                        * Office of Laboratory Science and Safety (OLSS)
                        * Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Laboratory Services (CSELS)
                        * National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS)
                      * Non-Infectious Diseases (NID)plus icon
                        * National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (NCBDDD)
                        * National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion (NCCDPHP)
                        * National Center for Environmental Health/Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry* (NCEH/ATSDR)
                        * National Center for Injury Prevention and Control (NCIPC)
                      * Infectious Diseases (ID)plus icon
                        * National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD)
                        * National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)
                        * National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention (NCHHSTP)
                      * Past Directors
                    * Speakers Bureauplus icon
                      * Request a Speaker
                      * CDC Director: Speaker Request
                      * Community & School Eventsplus icon
                        * Community Relations
                    * CDC Organizationplus icon
                      * Mission, Role and Pledgeplus icon
                        * Pledge to the American People
                      * Organization Chart
                      * Official Mission Statements & Organizational Charts
                    * A Bold Promise to the Nationplus icon
                      * CDC Strategic Frameworkplus icon
                        * 2019 Progress Report
                      * Securing Global Health
                      * Eliminating Disease 
                      * Ending Epidemics
                      * 2019 CDC Funding
                      * Watch CDC @Work
                      * I Am CDC â Meet the Staff
                    * Fact of the Weekplus icon
                      * Fact of the Week Archives
                    * Business Practicesplus icon
                      * CDC Foundation
                    * Laboratory Science & Safety
                    * Diversity and Inclusion Management
                    * History
                    * More About CDCplus icon
                      * Zika Response & Success Stories
                      * 2014 Ebola Outbreak Responseplus icon
                        * Ebola Report
                      * CDC Archivesplus icon
                        * Advisory Committees

Features Media

Social_round_rss RSS Sign up for Features

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Related Links

                    * CDC Newsroom
                    * CDC Timeline
                    * Gateway to Health
                    * Ethics Program

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

