

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Rx Awareness

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# About the campaign

Minus

Related Pages

The Rx Awareness campaign tells the real stories of people whose lives were
torn apart by prescription opioids. The goal of the campaign is to increase
awareness that prescription opioids can be addictive and dangerous. The
campaign also strives to decrease the number of individuals who use opioids
recreationally or overuse them.

### When the Prescription Becomes the Problem

Almost 36 percent of all U.S. opioid overdose deaths involve a prescription
opioid. Overdose deaths involving prescription opioids have increase by about
5 times since 1999. From 1999 to 2017, more than 200,000 people died from
overdoses related to prescription opioids, with more than 17,000 overdose
deaths involving prescription opioids occurring in 2017.

### Take Action and Help

Whether you are a healthcare provider, first responder, law enforcement
officer, public health official, or community member, the opioid epidemic is
likely affecting you and your community. No matter who you are, you can take
action to end the opioid overdose epidemic ravaging the United States. We all
have a role to play on the frontlines of this fight--it starts with addressing
prescription opioid misuse, abuse, and overdose.

                    * Learn more about prescription opioids so you can help those at risk for opioid use disorder and overdose in your community.
                    * Help those struggling with addiction find the right care and treatment. Anyone who takes prescription opioids can become addicted and help is available if you or someone you know is battling opioid use disorder.
                    * Spread the word and increase awareness in your community about the risk and dangers of prescription opioids.

State and local health departments and community organizations can also take
part in the Rx Awareness campaign and use the tested campaign materials and
resources to launch campaigns, support local prevention activities, and raise
awareness about the risks of prescription opioids.

Read the Executive Summary for an overview of the campaign Cdc-pdf[PDF - 5
MB], and learn how to launch the campaign in your local community.

Cdc-pdfCampaign Overview

![thumbnail image of PDF](/rxawareness/images/about/RxAwareness-Campaign-
Overview-TN.jpg)

Rx Awareness Campaign Overview Fact Sheet Cdc-pdf[PDF - 334 KB]

![](/rxawareness/images/facebook-web/Mike-slipaway-CDC_Facebook_19.jpg)

###

![](/rxawareness/images/facebook-web/Teresa-dangerous-CDC_Facebook_13.jpg)

###

![How can I be addicted? I get these from my doctor. -
Brenda](/rxawareness/images/stories-social-
media/CDC_RxAwareness__Facebook_Brenda_v1.jpg)

###

![](/rxawareness/images/facebook-web/AnnMarie-sneakers-CDC_Facebook_17.jpg)

###

![Our secrets keep us sick. -Devin](/rxawareness/images/stories-social-
media/CDC_RxAwareness_Facebook_Devin-v1.jpg)

###

![](/rxawareness/images/facebook-web/Noah-struggling-CDC_Facebook_20.jpg)

###

![](/rxawareness/images/facebook-web/Judy-losechild-CDC_Facebook_15.jpg)

###

Rx Awareness Campaign Trailer

Cdc-pdfView Transcript Cdc-mediaLow Resolution Video

Related Pages

                    * Real Stories
                    * Prevent Prescription Opioid Overdose
                    * Treatment and Recovery
                    * Campaign Resources
                    * Newsroom

CDC's Opioid Overdose Website

Learn more about opioid misuse and overdose, data, and prevention resources at
CDC's Opioid Overdose website.

Page last reviewed: March 12, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Injury Prevention and Control

home Rx Awareness

                    * About the Campaign expand
                      * Contact Us
                    * Real Stories expand
                      * Ann Marie
                      * Brenda
                      * Cortney
                      * Devin
                      * Judy
                      * Katie
                      * Mike
                      * Noah
                      * Tamera
                      * Teresa
                    * Prevent Prescription Opioid Overdose
                    * Treatment and Recovery
                    * Campaign Resources expand
                      * Video
                      * Radio
                      * Online Ads
                      * Signs and Billboards
                      * Social Media
                    * Newsroom

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this topic, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF media

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

