

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

About CDC 24-7

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# CDC Leadership

Minus

Related Pages

CDC Leaders

                    * Office of the Director
                    * Director, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)
                    * Deputy Director for Public Health Service and Implementation Science (DDPHSIS)
                    * Deputy Director for Public Health Science and Surveillance (DDPHSS)
                    * Deputy Director for Non-Infectious Diseases (DDNID)
                    * Deputy Director for Infectious Diseases (DDID)

### Office of the Director

Director

 **Robert R. Redfield, MD**

![Robert R. Redfield, MD](/about/images/leadership/leaders/cdcdirector.jpg)

Robert R. Redfield, MD, is the 18th Director of the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention and Administrator of the Agency for Toxic Substances
and Disease Registry.

More

Principal Deputy Director

 **Anne Schuchat, MD (RADM, USPHS, RET)**

![Patricia M. Simone, MD \(CAPT, USPHS,
ret.\)](/about/images/leadership/leaders/pdd.jpg)

Anne Schuchat, MD, is the Principal Deputy Director of CDC. She has been CDC's
principal deputy director since September 2015. She served as acting CDC
director from January-July 2017 and February-March 2018.

More

CDC Organizational Chart with Photos pdf icon[PDF - 691 KB]

Acting Associate Director for Communication

 **Michelle E. Bonds, MBA**

![Associate Director for
Communication](/about/images/leadership/leaders/adc.jpg)

**Michelle E. Bonds, MBA,** is the Acting Associate Director for
Communication. She has nearly 30 years of experience in strategic
communications, stakeholder engagement, employee communication, national media
relations, behavior change campaign development, and federal public affairs.

More

Associate Director for Policy and Strategy

 **Robin M. Ikeda, MD, MPH (RADM, USPHS)**

![Associate Director for Policy for
CDC](/about/images/leadership/leaders/adp.jpg)

Robin M. Ikeda, MD, MPH **,** is the Associate Director for Policy and
Strategy at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).  In this
capacity, she supports the policy, performance, and strategy across CDC.

More

Chief of Staff

 **Kyle McGowan**

![Sarah Wiley, MPH](/about/images/leadership/leaders/cos.jpg)

Kyle McGowan is the Chief of Staff at the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC). Prior to joining CDC, Kyle most recently served as the
Director of External Affairs at the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services.

More

Chief Operating Officer

 **Sherri A. Berger, MSPH**

![Sherri A. Berger, MSPH, Chief Operating Officer,
CDC](/about/images/leadership/leaders/coo.jpg)

Sherri A. Berger, MSPH, became Chief Operating Officer (COO) of the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), one of 10 major operating divisions
of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), in August 2011. As COO,
she oversees management, facilities, and operations at the Atlanta-based
public health agency. She provides substantial strategic direction for CDC's
workforce and budget, while ensuring CDC has proper resources to fulfill its
critical work to save lives and protect people from health threats.

More

Acting Director, CDC Washington Office

 **Anstice Brand Kenefick**

![Karyn Richman, MPA](/about/images/leadership/leaders/cdcwashington.jpg)

Anstice Brand Kenefick, is currently the Acting Director of the CDC Washington
Office. She most recently served as Acting Deputy Director of the CDC
Washington Office.

More

Director, Office of Equal Employment Opportunity (OEEO)

 **Reginald R. Mebane, MS**

![Director, Office of Equal Employment Opportunity
\(OEEO\)](/about/images/leadership/leaders/oeeo.jpg)

Reginald R. Mebane, MS, is currently the Director of CDC's Office of Equal
Employment Opportunity (OEEO). As Director, Mr. Mebane is responsible for
advising and counseling CDC′s executive leadership team on a variety of equal
employment opportunity, diversity management, civil rights and human resources
issues impacting the agency′s complex and diverse global workforce.

More

Chief Medical Officer

 **Mitch Wolfe, MD, MPH (RADM, USPHS)**

![Chief Medical Officer ](/about/images/leadership/leaders/cmo.jpg)

Mitch Wolfe, MD, MPH, is CDC's Chief Medical Officer. In this role, Dr. Wolfe
provides support to the CDC Director, and interacts with key public health
partners, Congress, the White House, and other government and public health
officials. In addition, he leads the development of objectives and planning
for CDC's global health strategy, footprint, and budget.

More

Office of the Associate Director for Laboratory Science and Safety

 **Steve Monroe, PhD**

![Associate Director for Laboratory Science and Safety
](/about/images/leadership/leaders/adlss.jpg)

Steve Monroe, PhD, is the Associate Director for Laboratory Science and Safety
(ADLSS) at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). He oversees
the Office of Laboratory Science and Safety (OLSS) which provides high-level
oversight and coordination of critical laboratory policies and operations,
particularly those associated with laboratory safety and quality management
programs at all CDC campuses.

More

### Director, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)

Director, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)

 **John Howard, MD, MPH, JD, LLM, MBA**

![Director, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health
\(NIOSH\)](/about/images/leadership/leaders/niosh.jpg)

John Howard, MD, MPH, JD, LLM, MBA, serves as the Director of the National
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health in the U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services in Washington, D.C.

More

### Deputy Director for Public Health Service and Implementation Science
(DDPHSIS)

Acting Deputy Director for Public Health Service and Implementation Science
(DDPHSIS)

 **Katherine Lyon Daniel, Ph.D.**

![DDPHSIS](/about/images/leadership/leaders/DDPHSIS.jpg)

Katherine Lyon Daniel, Ph.D. is CDC's Acting Deputy Director for Public Health
Service and Implementation Science, with a mission to lead, promote, and
facilitate science programs and policies to identify and respond to public
health threats, both domestically and internationally.

More

Associate Director, Office of Minority Health and Health Equity (OMHHE)

 **Leandris Liburd, PhD, MPH, MA**

![Associate Director, Office of Minority Health and Health Equity
\(OMHHE\)](/about/images/leadership/leaders/omhhe.jpg)

Leandris Liburd, PhD, MPH, MA is the Associate Director for the Office of
Minority Health and Health Equity at the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC). In this role she leads a wide range of critical functions in
the agency's work in minority health and health equity, women's health, and
diversity and inclusion management.

More

Director, Center for Global Health (CGH)

 **Rebecca Martin, PhD**

![Director, Center for Global Health
\(CGH\)](/about/images/leadership/leaders/cgh.jpg)

Rebecca Martin, PhD, is the Director of the Center for Global Health (CGH) at
the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Dr Martin has worked
both domestically and internationally in immunization, HIV, and health system
strengthening and now leads CDC's global efforts to protect and improve health
globally through science, policy, partnership, and evidence-based public
health action.

More

Director, Center for Preparedness and Response (CPR)

 **John Dreyzehner, MD, MPH, FACOEM**

![John Dreyzehner, MD, MPH, FACOEM](/about/images/leadership/leaders/cpr.jpg)

John Dreyzehner, MD, MPH, FACOEM is the Director of the Center for
Preparedness and Response. In this role, he is responsible for all programs
that comprise CDC's public health preparedness and response portfolio. Dr.
Dreyzehner is a highly respected national leader in the field of public
health, with a particular career emphasis on preparedness and response issues,
including serving as the ASTHO Preparedness Policy Committee Chair, National
Homeland Security Consortium Tri-Chair, and the NEMA-ASTHO-GHSAC Policy
Committee Co-Chair.

More

Center for State, Tribal, Local and Territorial Support (CSTLTS)

 **Jos e T. Montero, MD, MHCDS**

![Deputy Director, Office for State, Tribal, Local, and Territorial Support
\(OSTLTS\)](/about/images/leadership/leaders/ostlts.jpg)

Jose T. Montero, MD, MHCDS, is the Director of the Center for State, Tribal,
Local, and Territorial Support, where he oversees support to the US health
departments and those serving tribal nations and insular areas. He provides
leadership for key activities and technical assistance designed to improve the
public health system's capacity and performance to achieve the nation's goals
in population health.

More

### Deputy Director for Public Health Science and Surveillance (DDPHSS)

Deputy Director for Public Health Science and Surveillance (DDPHSS)

 **Chesley Richards, MD, MPH, FACP**

![Deputy Director, Office of Public Health Scientific Services
\(OPHSS\)](/about/images/leadership/leaders/ophss.jpg)

Chesley Richards, MD, MPH, FACP, is the Deputy Director for Public Health
Science and Surveillance. In this position, he is responsible for
strengthening CDC's scientific foundation by working across the Office of
Science, the Office of Laboratory Science and Safety, the Center for
Surveillance, Epidemiology, and Laboratory Services, and the National Center
for Health Statistics. A primary focus of his role is to advance an agency-
wide public health data strategy and serve as an advisor to the CDC Director.

More

Director, Office of Science (OS)

 **Rebecca Bunnell, PhD, MEd **

![Rebecca Bunnell, PhD, MEd](/about/images/leadership/leaders/os.jpg)

Rebecca Bunnell, PhD, MEd is the Director of CDC's Office of Science. Since
joining CDC in 1996 as an EIS Officer in the Division of STD Prevention, Dr.
Bunnell has held key CDC positions in Atlanta, California, Uganda, and Kenya.

More

Associate Director, Office of Laboratory Science and Safety (OLSS)

 **Steve Monroe, PhD**

![Associate Director for Laboratory Science and Safety
](/about/images/leadership/leaders/adlss.jpg)

Steve Monroe, PhD, is the Associate Director for Laboratory Science and Safety
(ADLSS) at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). He oversees
the Office of Laboratory Science and Safety (OLSS) which provides high-level
oversight and coordination of critical laboratory policies and operations,
particularly those associated with laboratory safety and quality management
programs at all CDC campuses.

More

Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology, and Laboratory Service (CSELS)

 **Michael F. Iademarco, MD, MPH (RADM, USPHS)**

![Director, Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology, and Laboratory Services
\(CSELS\)](/about/images/leadership/leaders/csels.jpg)

Michael F. Iademarco, MD, MPH is Director of the Center for Surveillance,
Epidemiology, and Laboratory Services (CSELS) at the U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention (CDC). His expertise as a physician-scientist and
laboratorian provides a strong foundation to lead CDC's efforts to track
America's health, strengthen laboratory networks, and help public health
officials identify urgent health threats.

More

Director, National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS)

 **Brian C. Moyer, PhD**

![Director, National Center for Health Statistics
\(NCHS\)](/about/images/leadership/leaders/nchs.jpg)

Brian C. Moyer, PhD, is the Director for the National Center for Health
Statistics (NCHS), which is the nation's principal source for health
statistical information to guide actions and policies to improve the health of
people. In this role, he is responsible for providing leadership for a wide-
range of programs, including research and analysis in health and vital
statistics, epidemiology, and related health and statistical sciences.

More

### Deputy Director for Non-Infectious Diseases (DDNID)

Deputy Director for Non-Infectious Diseases (DDNID)

 **Celeste Philip, MD, MPH**

![Celeste Philip, MD, MPH](/about/images/leadership/leaders/ondieh.jpg)

Celeste Philip, MD, MPH **,** is the Deputy Director for Non-Infectious
Diseases (DDNID) at CDC. In this position, she is responsible for providing
leadership and guidance to CDC′s four non-infectious disease centers and helps
to advance the agency's cross-cutting, non-infectious disease priorities such
as preventing prediabetes and diabetes, ending the opioid epidemic, reducing
birth defects and developmental disabilities, and protecting the public's
health from environmental hazards.

More

Acting Director, National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities (NCBDDD)

 **Amanda Cohn, MD (CAPT, USPHS)**

![Acting Director, National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities \(NCBDDD\)](/about/images/leadership/leaders/ncbddd.jpg)

Amanda Cohn, MD (CAPT, USPHS), is the Acting Director for the National Center
on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (NCBDDD). Previous to joining
NCBDDD in this new role, Dr. Cohn  served as the Acting Chief Medical Officer
in the National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD),
where she led Center activities in Vaccine Policy, Preparedness, and Global
Health. She is also the Executive Secretary of the Advisory Committee on
Immunization Practices (ACIP).

More

Director, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion
(NCCDPHP)

 **Karen Hacker, MD, MPH**

![Director, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health
Promotion \(NCCDPHP\)](/about/images/leadership/leaders/nccdphp.jpg)

Karen Hacker, MD, MPH, is the Director of CDC's National Center for Chronic
Disease Prevention and Health Promotion (NCCDPHP), a position she assumed in
August 2019. NCCDPHP has an annual budget of about $1.2 billion and more than
1,000 staff members dedicated to preventing chronic diseases and promoting
health across the life span.

More

Director, National Center for Environmental Health/Agency for Toxic Substances
and Disease Registry (NCEH/ATSDR)

 **Patrick Breysse, PhD, CIH**

![Director, National Center for Environmental Health/Agency for Toxic
Substances and Disease Registry
\(NCEH/ATSDR\)](/about/images/leadership/leaders/nceh-atsdr.jpg)

Pat Breysse, PhD, CIH, joined CDC in December 2014 as the Director of
NCEH/ATSDR. Dr. Breysse leads CDC's efforts to investigate the relationship
between environmental factors and health. He came to CDC from the Johns
Hopkins University where he served as Associate Chair for Educational Programs
within the Department of Environmental Health Sciences, Program Director for
the Industrial Hygiene Training Program, and co-director of the Johns Hopkins
Center for Childhood Asthma in the Urban Environment.

More

Director, National Center for Injury Prevention and Control (NCIPC)

 **Debra Houry, MD, MPH**

![Director, National Center for Injury Prevention and Control
\(NCIPC\)](/about/images/leadership/leaders/ncipc.jpg)

Debra Houry, MD, MPH, is the Director of the National Center for Injury
Prevention and Control (NCIPC) at CDC. In this role, Dr. Houry leads
innovative research and science-based programs to prevent injuries and
violence and to reduce their consequences. She joined the CDC in October 2014.
She has previously served as Vice-Chair and Associate Professor in the
Department of Emergency Medicine at Emory University School of Medicine and as
Associate Professor in the Departments of Behavioral Science and Health
Education and in Environmental Health at the Rollins School of Public Health.

More

### Deputy Director for Infectious Diseases (DDID)

Deputy Director for Infectious Diseases (DDID)

 **Jay C. Butler, MD (CAPT, USPHS, RET)**

![Deputy Director, Office of Infectious Diseases
\(OID\)](/about/images/leadership/leaders/oid.jpg)

Jay C. Butler, MD is the Deputy Director for Infectious Diseases. In this
capacity, he provides leadership to the efforts of CDC's three infectious
disease national centers and helps to advance the agency's cross-cutting
infectious disease priorities.

More

Director, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD)

 **Nancy Messonnier, MD**

![Director, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases
\(NCIRD\)](/about/images/leadership/leaders/ncird.jpg)

Nancy Messonnier, MD **,** is the Director of the Center for the National
Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD). Since beginning her
public health career in 1995 as an Epidemic Intelligence Service Officer in
the Deputy Director for Infectious Diseases (DDID), Dr. Messonnier has held a
number of leadership posts across CDC and within NCIRD. She served as Deputy
Director of NCIRD from October 2014-March 2016, and led the Meningitis and
Vaccine Preventable Diseases Branch in NCIRD's Division of Bacterial Diseases
from 2007-2012.

More

Director, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)

 **Rima F. Khabbaz, MD**

![Director, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
\(NCEZID\)](/about/images/leadership/leaders/ncezid.jpg)

Rima F. Khabbaz, MD **,** is the Director of the National Center for Emerging
and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID). In this capacity she helps to
advance the agency's cross-cutting infectious disease priorities, including
the integration of advance molecular detection (AMD) technologies into public
health. She served as CDC Deputy Director for Infectious Diseases and Director
of the Office of Infectious Diseases (OID) from 2010 to 2017 where she
provided leadership to the efforts of CDC's three infectious disease national
centers.

More

Director, Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD and TB Prevention
(NCHHSTP)

 **Jonathan Mermin, MD, MPH (RADM, USPHS)**

![Director, National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB
Prevention \(NCHHSTP\)](/about/images/leadership/leaders/nchhstp.jpg)

Jonathan Mermin, MD, MPH **,**  is the Director of the National Center for
HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention (NCHHSTP), and a Rear
Admiral in the U.S. Public Health Service. He oversees the nation's efforts to
prevent HIV, viral hepatitis, sexually transmitted diseases, and tuberculosis.

More

Page last reviewed: March 30, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home About CDC 24-7

                    * Leadershipplus icon
                      * Director
                      * Principal Deputy Director
                      * CDC Staff Officesplus icon
                        * Office of the Associate Director for Communication (OADC) 
                        * Office of the Associate Director for Policy and Strategy (OADPS)
                        * Chief Medical Officer
                        * Office of the Chief of Staff (OCS)
                        * Office of the Chief Operating Officer (OCOO)
                        * CDC Washington Office
                        * Office of Equal Employment Opportunity (OEEO)
                      * National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)
                      * Public Health Service and Implementation Science (PHSIS)plus icon
                        * Office of Minority Health and Health Equity (OMHHE)
                        * Center for Global Health (CGH)
                        * Center for Preparedness and Response (CPR) 
                        * Center for State, Tribal, Local, and Territorial Support (CSTLTS)
                      * Public Health Science and Surveillance (PHSS)plus icon
                        * Office of Science (OS)
                        * Office of Laboratory Science and Safety (OLSS)
                        * Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Laboratory Services (CSELS)
                        * National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS)
                      * Non-Infectious Diseases (NID)plus icon
                        * National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (NCBDDD)
                        * National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion (NCCDPHP)
                        * National Center for Environmental Health/Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry* (NCEH/ATSDR)
                        * National Center for Injury Prevention and Control (NCIPC)
                      * Infectious Diseases (ID)plus icon
                        * National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD)
                        * National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)
                        * National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention (NCHHSTP)
                      * Past Directors
                    * Speakers Bureauplus icon
                      * Request a Speaker
                      * CDC Director: Speaker Request
                      * Community & School Eventsplus icon
                        * Community Relations
                    * CDC Organizationplus icon
                      * Mission, Role and Pledgeplus icon
                        * Pledge to the American People
                      * Organization Chart
                      * Official Mission Statements & Organizational Charts
                    * A Bold Promise to the Nationplus icon
                      * CDC Strategic Frameworkplus icon
                        * 2019 Progress Report
                      * Securing Global Health
                      * Eliminating Disease 
                      * Ending Epidemics
                      * 2019 CDC Funding
                      * Watch CDC @Work
                      * I Am CDC â Meet the Staff
                    * Fact of the Weekplus icon
                      * Fact of the Week Archives
                    * Business Practicesplus icon
                      * CDC Foundation
                    * Laboratory Science & Safety
                    * Diversity and Inclusion Management
                    * History
                    * More About CDCplus icon
                      * Zika Response & Success Stories
                      * 2014 Ebola Outbreak Responseplus icon
                        * Ebola Report
                      * CDC Archivesplus icon
                        * Advisory Committees

Features Media

Social_round_rss RSS Sign up for Features

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Related Links

                    * CDC Newsroom
                    * CDC Timeline
                    * Gateway to Health
                    * Ethics Program

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

