

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

alert_06

COVID-19: CDC Museum Closed to the Public

Due to ongoing concerns about the novel coronavirus (COVID-19), the David J.
Sencer CDC Museum is closed to the public and will remain closed as we
continue to assess and monitor developments. All CDC Museum tours are canceled
until further notice.

This decision is being made out of an abundance of caution and based upon the
guidance of the CDC regarding social distancing and the elimination of large
gatherings.

Please continue to check our website and social media accounts for additional
updates.

Resources for Large Community Events & Mass Gatherings

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

David J. Sencer CDC Museum: In Association with the Smithsonian Institution

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# David J. Sencer CDC Museum

Minus

Related Pages

![Changing Winds Banner](/museum/images/changing-winds-row-banner-b.png)

Ever wonder how CDC scientists merge old-fashioned detective work with high-
tech science to crack the cases of mystery diseases? Get the Story! Visit the
David J. Sencer CDC Museum at CDC Headquarters. This unique museum features
award-winning permanent and changing exhibitions that focus on a variety of
public health topics, as well as the history of CDC. The museum is free and
open to the public so we would like to see you soon.

Temporary Exhibitions

Changing Winds: Public Health and Indian Country

September 21, 2019 - May 1, 2020

![native americans in home](/museum/images/YUYAN-190108-NVJO-2695_500px_1.jpg)

Navajo family, Chinle, Arizona, 2019. Photograph by Kiliii Yuyan​

_Changing Winds: Public Health and Indian Country_ is an opportunity to
celebrate the contributions of American Indians and Alaska Natives to public
health. Aligning good health and wellness with the traditional ways of knowing
is at the forefront of culture, language, and practices across American Indian
and Alaska Native communities--both rural and urban.

This exhibition demonstrates how tribal nations are addressing modern day
challenges for good health and wellness while using traditional knowledge and
practices for public health. Its stories provide a glimpse into the diverse
cultures and continuing challenges affecting tribal communities across the
U.S.

Also on view is _The Roots of Wisdom: Native Knowledge. Shared Science._ ,
organized by the Oregon Museum of Science and Industry. From restoring
ecosystems to revitalizing cultural practices, _Roots of Wisdom_ provides
examples of how traditional knowledge and Western science together create
complementary solutions to contemporary concerns.

More

About the Museum

General overview of the museum's history, purpose, mission, and goals.

Exhibitions

Current, online, upcoming, past, and CDC traveling exhibits.

CDC History

Timeline and archive over 3,000 items available to students and researchers.

Schedule Tour

Guided tour information for student and adult groups plus the tour request
form.

Disease Detective Camp

A week-long day camp for rising high school juniors and seniors.

Resources

CDC Museum marketing materials and interactive activities for students and
educators.

Related Links

                    * Request a Speaker
                    * Public Health Grand Rounds
                    * CDC History
                    * About CDC
                    * Smithsonian Institutionexternal icon

Other Resources

                    * View CDC Museum Slideshow
                    * CDC Museum Brochure pdf icon[8.8 MB, 2 Pages, 16″ x 9″]
                    * CDC Museum Press Sheet pdf icon[2.3 MB, 1 page]

CDC Museum Button

![David J. Sencer CDC Museum, in association with the Smithsonian Institution
— Visit CDC's David J. Sencer CDC
Museum](/museum/images/ghomuseum_180x150.jpg)

Go to CDC Museum Social Media Tools to get instructions and the HTML code for
the button.

Museum Info

                    * **Hours**  
Monday: 9am-5pm  
Tuesday: 9am-5pm  
Wednesday: 9am-5pm  
Thursday: 9am-7pm  
Friday: 9am-5pm  
_Closed weekends & federal holidays_

                    * **Location** 1600 Clifton Road NE  
Atlanta, GA 30329

                    * **Phone** 404-639-0830
                    * **Admission & Parking:** Free  
Government-issued photo ID required for adults over the age of 18  
Passport required for non-U.S. citizens

Global Health Chronicles

![Nigeria. Credit: The Carter Center/E. Staub, The Global Health
Chronicles](/museum/images/guinea-worm-ghc.jpg)

Global Health Chronicles was launched in collaboration with Emory University's
Libraries, Global Health Institute, and Rollins School of Public Health. The
web site is a series of "Chronicles," each dealing with a different subject.

More

Page last reviewed: March 27, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home David J. Sencer CDC Museum Home

                    * About plus icon
                      * David J. Sencer
                      * Museum Slideshow
                    * Visitplus icon
                      * Security and Parking
                      * Directions
                      * Visitor Information
                    * Exhibitionsplus icon
                      * Current Exhibitsplus icon
                        * Changing Winds + Roots of Wisdom
                      * Upcoming Exhibits
                      * CDC Traveling Exhibitions
                      * Past 
                      * Online Exhibits
                    * Schedule Tourplus icon
                      * Student Field Trip Experience
                      * Adult Group Tour 
                      * Tour Request Form
                      * CDC Museum Tour FAQ
                    * CDC Historyplus icon
                      * Hidden History â Stories from the Collectionplus icon
                        * Wellbee
                        * Shapona
                        * Seal Mystery 
                        * âRed Spotsâ
                        * Microscope
                        * Mosquito Light Trap
                        * Portable Computer 
                        * First Flag Flown 
                      * CDC 70th Anniversaryplus icon
                        * 7 Decades of Firsts
                        * Celebrating 7 Decades
                      * Timelineplus icon
                        * CDC Timeline 2000s
                        * CDC Timeline 1990s
                        * CDC Timeline 1980s
                        * CDC Timeline 1940s â 1970s
                    * Disease Detective Campplus icon
                      * Media Galleryplus icon
                        * Outbreak
                        * Workshops
                      * FAQ
                    * Resourcesplus icon
                      * Social Media 
                      * Mission

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

