

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

About CDC 24-7

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# CDC Responds to the 2014 Ebola Outbreak

Minus

Related Pages

As CDC experts work 24/7 in response to the Ebola Outbreak in West Africa,
they support the response in many different capacities. In an effort to get
the worst Ebola outbreak in history under control, CDC is not only providing
guidance to healthcare professionals but traveling back to West Africa to
focus on stopping the spread of the disease.

#### CDC Responders

Chris

![Chris Edens](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/chris1-185px.jpg) CDC Disease
Detective Chris and his team worked to ensure that hospitals had the necessary
staff, training, equipment, and confidence to treat Ebola patients - without
becoming patients themselves.

More

                    * B
                    * C
                    * D
                    * E
                    * F
                    * G
                    * H
                    * I
                    * J
                    * K
                    * L
                    * M
                    * N
                    * P
                    * R
                    * S
                    * T
                    * U

Ben

![Disease Detective: Ben](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/ben-185px.jpg) When
Ebola began to spread in Liberia, Ben's background in education and prior
Peace Corps experience were much-needed skills. He deployed in July and served
on the ground as a health communications specialist.

More

Chris

![Chris Edens](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/chris1-185px.jpg) CDC Disease
Detective Chris and his team worked to ensure that hospitals had the necessary
staff, training, equipment, and confidence to treat Ebola patients - without
becoming patients themselves.

More

Christina

![ Christina is an Epidemic Intelligence Surveillance \(EIS\) Officer for
CDC’s National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health
\(NIOSH\)](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/christina-185px.jpg) As an
Epidemic Intelligence Surveillance (EIS) Officer for CDC's National Institute
for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), Christina knows all too well the
consequences of workplace hazards.

More

Dan

![Disease Detective Dan](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/dan-185px.jpg) Joy
and grief are familiar emotions in Sierra Leone, as Ebola survivors return to
their villages only to realize many in their family have died. CDC
epidemiologist Dan says he hopes his time there will lead to more happy
reunions and fewer funerals.

More

Dominique

![Dominique](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/dominique-185px.jpg) Like many
of the CDC staff working on the Ebola outbreak, Dominique is no stranger to
stepping up during public health emergencies. When she travelled to West
Africa in early July, it marked her fourth deployment with CDC, with three
prior deployments to Haiti.

More

Erik

![Photo: Disease Detective -
Erik](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/erik-185px.jpg) CDC Disease detective
Erik is one of many Epidemic Intelligence Service (EIS) officers who have
recently deployed to West Africa. He was prepared for the poor infrastructure,
underdeveloped medical systems and even bucket showers. But the emotional
impact has been unparalleled for many staffers, including Erik.

More

Fred and Fatima

![Husband and wife Fred and Fatima volunteered for the Ebola response and
served in Sierra Leone and Guinea.](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/fred-
fatima-185px.jpg) Husband and wife Fred and Fatima volunteered for the Ebola
response and served in Sierra Leone and Guinea.

More

Francisco

![Disease detective:
Francisco](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/francisco-185px.jpg) Francisco
serves as the Chief of Science for the Global Migration Task Force, which is
part of the Division of Global Migration and Quarantine. He and his team
within the EOC develop protocols that reduce the risk of travelers with Ebola
from entering the United States, or from leaving the country where they were
infected.

More

Gabrielle

![Photo: Gabrielle](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/gabrielle-185px.jpg)
Gabrielle stands in front of a whiteboard that displays the projects the
Global Migration Task Force has been assigned and completed.

More

Gayle

![](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/gayle1-185px.jpg) Gayle's work as a
Safety Officer ensured safety and security for CDC employees deployed to
Liberia to fight Ebola.

More

Greg

![Disease Detective: LCD
Greg](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/greg-185px.jpg) Greg is no stranger to
risk. Originally trained as a Navy diver, he is now a CDC detective and an
officer in the US Public Health Service. He has worked on several potentially
dangerous diseases, including Leishmaniasis, H1N1 influenza, MRSA, and Rocky
Mountain spotted fever. So when the call came to be deployed to West Africa
for the Ebola outbreak, he wasn't concerned.

More

Heidi and Lindsey

![CDC Reponders: Heidi and Lindsey](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/Heidi-
Lindsey185px.jpg) Hedi and Lindsey are part of the infection control program
which trains frontline healthworker in handwashing, triaging patients, putting
on protective equipment and cleaning up contaminated fluids.

More

Inger

![Captain Inger Damon](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/inger-185px.jpg)
Captain Inger Damon, M.D., Ph.D., was named Incident Manager to head the Ebola
response at CDC's Emergency Operations Center (EOC) on July 30th.

More

Jeff

![Jeff reflects on his work to fight Ebola: “Screeners play a vital role in
making sure that we achieve zero new
cases”.](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/jeff-185px.jpg)Jeff reflects on his
work to fight Ebola: "Screeners play a vital role in making sure that we
achieve zero new cases".

More

John

![Disease Detective John](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/brooks-185px.jpg)
Dr. John Brooks was the lead of CDC's Ebola Medical Care Task Force in
September - October 2014 and March 2015.

More

Jose

![Jose and his team travel into the jungle and worked with village chiefs and
trusted community members to identify Ebola
cases.](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/jose1-185px.jpg) Jose and his team
traveled into the wilderness and worked with village chiefs and trusted
community members to identify Ebola cases.

More

Kari

![Disease Detective: Kari](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/kari1-185px.jpg)
Kari is just back from West Africa on a CDC team, where she worked to track
down people exposed to one of the world's most feared pathogens: Ebola virus.

More

Kelsey

![Disease Detective: kelsey](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/ebola-
kelsey.jpg) CDC disease detective Kelsey recently traveled to villages in the
remote region that borders Guinea, Sierra Leone, and Liberia - the epicenter
of the ongoing Ebola outbreak. She helped train community health workers to
trace people exposed to Ebola patients, but says she learned more than she
taught.

More

Kim

![Disease Detective: Kim](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/kim-185px.jpg) CDC
deployed Kim to Liberia for just this kind of job. Her mission: to rapidly
investigate possible Ebola outbreaks in hard-to-reach places. If she saw cases
of Ebola, her team would quickly start active case finding and contact tracing
to limit spread of the disease.

More

Leisha

![Disease Detecticve
Leisha](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/leisha-185px.jpg) During her previous
deployment several months ago, Ebola seemed to be quieting down in the remote
part of Liberia where Leisha was posted. There were no new cases in the month
she was there, so she and her colleagues got to work, trying to educate people
to recognize new cases and prevent spread.

More

Meredith

![Disease detective:
meredith](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/meredith-185px.jpg) Meredith, a CDC
disease detective and experienced international traveler, has already
completed two month-long postings to West Africa. She was there last spring,
when the Ebola outbreak seemed to be winding down - and went back this summer
as the outbreak exploded anew. She has seen first-hand what Ebola has done to
patients, families, and caregivers.

More

Molly

![CDC Responder: Molly](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/molly1-185px.jpg)
Molly is a health communications specialist for CDC, and this week she
deployed in support of the Ebola outbreak.

More

Monique

![CDC Repsonder: Monique](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/monique-185px.jpg)
Monique, a CDC health communications specialist, is excited to deploy in
support of the Ebola outbreak in West Africa.

More

Neil

![Disease detective: Neil](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/neil-185px.jpg)
CDC Disease Detective Neil recently returned from a month working in Liberia,
during which time he was based in Bomi County.

More

Nicole

![Disease detective:
Nicole](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/nicole-185px.jpg) Visiting the slums
of Sierra Leone, where the life expectancy is just 35, was an eye-opening
experience for 31-year-old Nicole. She's one of CDC's communications experts
trying to stop the spread of the virus in Sierra Leone's densely populated
cities.

More

Dr. Pierre Rollin

![Disease Detective:
Pierre](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/pierre-185px.jpg) Pierre Rollin is
the most experienced Ebola virus hunter at the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention. He first encountered Ebola at CDC in 1995 in Kikwit, Democratic
Republic of Congo, and has been on the forefront of CDC's response to every
outbreak since.

More

Rebecca

![Disease detective:
Rebecca](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/rebecca185px.jpg) Rebecca is a CDC
disease detective and the mother of two young boys, and she is deploying this
week to West Africa in support of the ongoing Ebola outbreak. A health
communicator who will be working in the field to improve health messaging at
the community level, Rebecca is determined to make these 30 days count.

More

Ron

![Ron’s commitment to workplace safety and health was renewed while preparing
hospitals at the frontlines of the Ebola
outbreak.](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/ron-185px.jpg) Ron's commitment to
workplace safety and health was renewed while preparing hospitals at the
frontlines of the Ebola outbreak.

More

Rupa

![Disease detective: Rupa](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/rupa-185px.jpg) It
was along this river bank that Rupa, a CDC disease detective, found herself
training Guinean medical workers who were screening river passengers for
symptoms of Ebola.

More

Ruth C.

![CDC Responder: Ruth](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/ruth-185px.jpg)

Ruth is a senior health communications specialist in CDC's Center for Global
Health. She has been working with foreign governments on various public health
messages for more than thirty years. Her job has taken her to Senegal,
Ethiopia, Tanzania, Kenya, Nigeria, Ghana and South Africa.

More

Ruth N.

![CDC respinder: Ruth N.](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/RuthN-185px.jpg)
Dr. Ruth's primary role as an Epidemic Surveillance Intelligence officer in
Sierra Leone will be to support surveillance, data management and contact
tracing. But she will rely on her familiarity with African customs while
interacting with locals.

More

Sandra

![CDC Rsponder Sandra](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/sandra-185px.jpg)CDC
Sends One Thousand Employees to West Africa as Part of Historic Ebola
Response.

More

Satish

![CDC Disease Detective:
Satish](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/satish1-185px.jpg) CDC's medical
officer Satish is part of an RITE (Rapid Isolation and Treatment of Ebola)
Team, mobilized to respond to suspected cases of Ebola in remote villages and
towns in Liberia.

More

Selcen

![Selcen has become one of the go-to experts on personal protective equipment
\(PPE\), a critical component of the
response.](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/selcen-185px.jpg) Scientists on
the home front in the United States are working hard to ensure the greatest
possible protection for Ebola responders in West Africa.

More

Team 5

![team 5](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/team5-2-185px.jpg) CDC's Bo Lab
Team 5 responds to the Ebola outbreak in West Africa, completing rapid ebola
testing in record numbers.

More

Ute

![CDC Responder](/about/images/24-7/cdcresponders/ute-185px.jpg) CDC mobile
labs equipped with real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) equipment
already are being set up next to West African Ebola treatment centers. And
Ute, a CDC expert, heads up the teams going with them.

More

Page last reviewed: June 2, 2015

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home About CDC 24-7

                    * Leadershipplus icon
                      * Director
                      * Principal Deputy Director
                      * CDC Staff Officesplus icon
                        * Office of the Associate Director for Communication (OADC) 
                        * Office of the Associate Director for Policy and Strategy (OADPS)
                        * Chief Medical Officer
                        * Office of the Chief of Staff (OCS)
                        * Office of the Chief Operating Officer (OCOO)
                        * CDC Washington Office
                        * Office of Equal Employment Opportunity (OEEO)
                      * National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)
                      * Public Health Service and Implementation Science (PHSIS)plus icon
                        * Office of Minority Health and Health Equity (OMHHE)
                        * Center for Global Health (CGH)
                        * Center for Preparedness and Response (CPR) 
                        * Center for State, Tribal, Local, and Territorial Support (CSTLTS)
                      * Public Health Science and Surveillance (PHSS)plus icon
                        * Office of Science (OS)
                        * Office of Laboratory Science and Safety (OLSS)
                        * Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Laboratory Services (CSELS)
                        * National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS)
                      * Non-Infectious Diseases (NID)plus icon
                        * National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (NCBDDD)
                        * National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion (NCCDPHP)
                        * National Center for Environmental Health/Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry* (NCEH/ATSDR)
                        * National Center for Injury Prevention and Control (NCIPC)
                      * Infectious Diseases (ID)plus icon
                        * National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD)
                        * National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)
                        * National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention (NCHHSTP)
                      * Past Directors
                    * Speakers Bureauplus icon
                      * Request a Speaker
                      * CDC Director: Speaker Request
                      * Community & School Eventsplus icon
                        * Community Relations
                    * CDC Organizationplus icon
                      * Mission, Role and Pledgeplus icon
                        * Pledge to the American People
                      * Organization Chart
                      * Official Mission Statements & Organizational Charts
                    * A Bold Promise to the Nationplus icon
                      * CDC Strategic Frameworkplus icon
                        * 2019 Progress Report
                      * Securing Global Health
                      * Eliminating Disease 
                      * Ending Epidemics
                      * 2019 CDC Funding
                      * Watch CDC @Work
                      * I Am CDC â Meet the Staff
                    * Fact of the Weekplus icon
                      * Fact of the Week Archives
                    * Business Practicesplus icon
                      * CDC Foundation
                    * Laboratory Science & Safety
                    * Diversity and Inclusion Management
                    * History
                    * More About CDCplus icon
                      * Zika Response & Success Stories
                      * 2014 Ebola Outbreak Responseplus icon
                        * Ebola Report
                      * CDC Archivesplus icon
                        * Advisory Committees

Features Media

Social_round_rss RSS Sign up for Features

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Related Links

                    * CDC Newsroom
                    * CDC Timeline
                    * Gateway to Health
                    * Ethics Program

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

##### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

