

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

About CDC 24-7

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# CDC Speakers Bureau

Minus

Related Pages

# CDC Speakers Bureau

The CDC Speakers Bureau has been in existence since August 1998. It evolved as
a means to meet the public′s request for first-hand/real-time information on
hot topics and emerging public health issues. Since its inception, the
Speakers Bureau has received requests from stakeholders around the world such
as schools, universities, community organizations, business corporations, and
non-profit organizations.

CDC employees from all disciplines volunteer their time to engage communities
about the agency′s public health impact. The topics span a multitude of health
concerns including pandemic influenza, emergency preparedness, women′s health,
obesity, vaccines and immunizations, and HIV/AIDS. The main focus of each
presentation is to communicate information that the audience need to protect
their health - through health promotion, prevention of disease, injury and
disability, and preparedness for new health threats.

Request a Speaker

![Request a Speaker](/about/images/speakers/request-speaker.jpg)

Your speaker's request will take 6-8 weeks to process, so please plan your
event accordingly.

CDC Director: Speaker Request

![Request a Speaker \(CDC Director\)](/about/images/speakers/request-speaker-
director.jpg)

To request the CDC Director's participation (attending or speaking) in an
event or meeting, please submit the required information.

Community & School Events

![CDC Ambassador, Aneesah](/about/images/speakers/Ambassador-Aneesah-Akbar-
Uqdah_273px.jpg)

Request a CDC Ambassador to participate in your career day, health fair, or
conduct a handwashing demonstration.

Frequently Asked Questions

#### How do I request a speaker?

Simply complete the speaker request form on our Request a Speaker page.

#### How far in advance should I request a speaker?

All requests should be submitted at least 6-8 weeks prior to your event date.

#### Am I guaranteed to have a speaker for my event?

No. We make every attempt to fill all requests; however, Speakers Bureau
participants are volunteers and may not be available for all events.

#### Do I have to pay a fee or honoraria for a speaker?

No. This is a free service.

#### Who is responsible for paying travel expenses?

It is customary for the host organization to pay travel expenses.

#### Are there any events not entitled to receive Speakers Bureau services?

Yes. Speakers cannot participate in events for the purpose of fundraising,
promotions, or any type of endorsements.

#### Do you want CDC to participate in your career day, health fair, or
facilitate a handwashing demonstration at your event?

CDC staff are available to come to schools, communities, faith-based
organizations, and events. You do not need to complete a Speakers Request if
you want CDC participation in one of the following: health fairs, career days,
or handwashing demonstrations. See the community & school events page to
submit a request to CDC Community Relations.

Page last reviewed: July 10, 2018

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home About CDC 24-7

                    * Leadershipplus icon
                      * Director
                      * Principal Deputy Director
                      * CDC Staff Officesplus icon
                        * Office of the Associate Director for Communication (OADC) 
                        * Office of the Associate Director for Policy and Strategy (OADPS)
                        * Chief Medical Officer
                        * Office of the Chief of Staff (OCS)
                        * Office of the Chief Operating Officer (OCOO)
                        * CDC Washington Office
                        * Office of Equal Employment Opportunity (OEEO)
                      * National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)
                      * Public Health Service and Implementation Science (PHSIS)plus icon
                        * Office of Minority Health and Health Equity (OMHHE)
                        * Center for Global Health (CGH)
                        * Center for Preparedness and Response (CPR) 
                        * Center for State, Tribal, Local, and Territorial Support (CSTLTS)
                      * Public Health Science and Surveillance (PHSS)plus icon
                        * Office of Science (OS)
                        * Office of Laboratory Science and Safety (OLSS)
                        * Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Laboratory Services (CSELS)
                        * National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS)
                      * Non-Infectious Diseases (NID)plus icon
                        * National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (NCBDDD)
                        * National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion (NCCDPHP)
                        * National Center for Environmental Health/Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry* (NCEH/ATSDR)
                        * National Center for Injury Prevention and Control (NCIPC)
                      * Infectious Diseases (ID)plus icon
                        * National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD)
                        * National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)
                        * National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention (NCHHSTP)
                      * Past Directors
                    * Speakers Bureauplus icon
                      * Request a Speaker
                      * CDC Director: Speaker Request
                      * Community & School Eventsplus icon
                        * Community Relations
                    * CDC Organizationplus icon
                      * Mission, Role and Pledgeplus icon
                        * Pledge to the American People
                      * Organization Chart
                      * Official Mission Statements & Organizational Charts
                    * A Bold Promise to the Nationplus icon
                      * CDC Strategic Frameworkplus icon
                        * 2019 Progress Report
                      * Securing Global Health
                      * Eliminating Disease 
                      * Ending Epidemics
                      * 2019 CDC Funding
                      * Watch CDC @Work
                      * I Am CDC â Meet the Staff
                    * Fact of the Weekplus icon
                      * Fact of the Week Archives
                    * Business Practicesplus icon
                      * CDC Foundation
                    * Laboratory Science & Safety
                    * Diversity and Inclusion Management
                    * History
                    * More About CDCplus icon
                      * Zika Response & Success Stories
                      * 2014 Ebola Outbreak Responseplus icon
                        * Ebola Report
                      * CDC Archivesplus icon
                        * Advisory Committees

Features Media

Social_round_rss RSS Sign up for Features

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Related Links

                    * CDC Newsroom
                    * CDC Timeline
                    * Gateway to Health
                    * Ethics Program

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

##### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

