

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

About CDC 24-7

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# The Road to Zero: CDCâs Response to the West African Ebola Epidemic,
2014â2015

Minus

Table of Contents

                    * The Road to Zero
                    * Introduction
                    * Tracing Contacts
                    * Strengthening Health Care and Preventing Infections
                    * Mobilizing Laboratories
                    * Protecting Borders
                    * Communicating and Educating
                    * Overcoming Challenges
                    * Moving Forward
                    * Timeline
                    * Ebola by the Numbers

Minus

Related Pages

![The Road to Zero: CDC’s Response to the West African Ebola Epidemic,
2014–2015](/about/images/ebola/home-header-full.jpg)

Yoshinori Nakazawa uses his tablet's GPS receiver to navigate and record
geographic information for parts of Kambia District, Sierra Leone. The data is
sent to CDC headquarters and shared with other partners.

The Road to Zero: CDC's Response to the West African Ebola Epidemic, 2014-2015

                    * Introduction
                    * Tracing Contacts
                    * Strengthening Health Care
                    * Mobilizing Laboratories
                    * Protecting Borders
                    * Communicating and Educating
                    * Overcoming Challenges
                    * Moving Forward
                    * Timeline
                    * Ebola by the Numbers

Featured Video

The Road to Zero: CDC's Response to the West African Ebola Epidemic, 2014-2015

Cdc-mediaLow Resolution Video

Podcast

The Road to Zero - CDC's Response to the West African Ebola Epidemic

![The Road to Zero - CDC's Response to the West African Ebola
Epidemic](/about/images/ebola/homepage/thumbnail-road-to-zero.jpg)

The 2014 Ebola epidemic in West Africa is the first in history. The first case
was reported in Guinea in March 2014, and the disease spread in the
neighboring countries of Liberia and Sierra Leone. Over the span of a year,
the Ebola epidemic has caused more than ten times as many cases of Ebola than
the combined total of all those reported in previous Ebola outbreaks. As the
outbreak became more widespread, travel-associated cases appeared in Nigeria,
Mali, Senegal, and even countries outside Africa, including the United States.

Download: The Road to Zero: CDC's Response to the 2014 Ebola Epidemic Cdc-
pdf[17.1 MB, 56 pages]

### Featured Information

CDC's Response to Ebola

![Timeline: CDC's Response to Ebola](/about/images/ebola/homepage/ebola-
timeline.gif)

This detailed infographic shows fluctuations of Ebola activity during the
course of the epidemic from March 2014 through July 2015.

More

Contact Tracing

![Contact Tracing ](/about/images/ebola/homepage/contact-tracing-methods.jpg)

Experience has taught us that rapid case finding, paired with proper infection
control, is critical for stopping the spread of Ebola during an outbreak.

More

Protecting our Borders

![Protecting our borders - preventing the spread of
Ebola](/about/images/ebola/homepage/protecting-borders.jpg)

CDC works with airlines, airports, and other partners in West Africa to
provide assistance for conducting screening and travel restriction.

More

Acknowledgements: Several photos throughout (C)David Snyder/ CDC Foundation

                    * Prev
                    * NextIntroduction

Page last reviewed: August 20, 2015

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home About CDC 24-7

                    * Leadershipplus icon
                      * Director
                      * Principal Deputy Director
                      * CDC Staff Officesplus icon
                        * Office of the Associate Director for Communication (OADC) 
                        * Office of the Associate Director for Policy and Strategy (OADPS)
                        * Chief Medical Officer
                        * Office of the Chief of Staff (OCS)
                        * Office of the Chief Operating Officer (OCOO)
                        * CDC Washington Office
                        * Office of Equal Employment Opportunity (OEEO)
                      * National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)
                      * Public Health Service and Implementation Science (PHSIS)plus icon
                        * Office of Minority Health and Health Equity (OMHHE)
                        * Center for Global Health (CGH)
                        * Center for Preparedness and Response (CPR) 
                        * Center for State, Tribal, Local, and Territorial Support (CSTLTS)
                      * Public Health Science and Surveillance (PHSS)plus icon
                        * Office of Science (OS)
                        * Office of Laboratory Science and Safety (OLSS)
                        * Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Laboratory Services (CSELS)
                        * National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS)
                      * Non-Infectious Diseases (NID)plus icon
                        * National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (NCBDDD)
                        * National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion (NCCDPHP)
                        * National Center for Environmental Health/Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry* (NCEH/ATSDR)
                        * National Center for Injury Prevention and Control (NCIPC)
                      * Infectious Diseases (ID)plus icon
                        * National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD)
                        * National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)
                        * National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention (NCHHSTP)
                      * Past Directors
                    * Speakers Bureauplus icon
                      * Request a Speaker
                      * CDC Director: Speaker Request
                      * Community & School Eventsplus icon
                        * Community Relations
                    * CDC Organizationplus icon
                      * Mission, Role and Pledgeplus icon
                        * Pledge to the American People
                      * Organization Chart
                      * Official Mission Statements & Organizational Charts
                    * A Bold Promise to the Nationplus icon
                      * CDC Strategic Frameworkplus icon
                        * 2019 Progress Report
                      * Securing Global Health
                      * Eliminating Disease 
                      * Ending Epidemics
                      * 2019 CDC Funding
                      * Watch CDC @Work
                      * I Am CDC â Meet the Staff
                    * Fact of the Weekplus icon
                      * Fact of the Week Archives
                    * Business Practicesplus icon
                      * CDC Foundation
                    * Laboratory Science & Safety
                    * Diversity and Inclusion Management
                    * History
                    * More About CDCplus icon
                      * Zika Response & Success Stories
                      * 2014 Ebola Outbreak Responseplus icon
                        * Ebola Report
                      * CDC Archivesplus icon
                        * Advisory Committees

Features Media

Social_round_rss RSS Sign up for Features

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Related Links

                    * CDC Newsroom
                    * CDC Timeline
                    * Gateway to Health
                    * Ethics Program

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

media PDF

##### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

