

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

About CDC 24-7

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# Office of Equal Employment Opportunity (OEEO)

Minus

Related Pages

#### Reginald R. Mebane, MS

![Director, Office of Equal Employment Opportunity
\(OEEO\)](/about/images/leadership/leaders/oeeo.jpg)

**Reginald R. Mebane, MS,** is currently the Director of CDC's Office of Equal
Employment Opportunity (OEEO). As Director, Mr. Mebane is responsible for
advising and counseling CDC′s executive leadership team on a variety of equal
employment opportunity, diversity management, civil rights and human resources
issues impacting the agency′s complex and diverse global workforce. His key
responsibilities include but are not limited to matters related to Affirmative
Employment(AEP), Disability, Reasonable Accommodation(RA), Alternative Dispute
Resolution(ADR), Special Emphasis Programs(SEP), and EEO Complaints Processing
and Settlements for all CDC centers, institutes and offices. He is also
responsible for the design and direction of programs, policies and procedures
based on the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission's(EEOC) rules,
regulations, laws and Executive Orders governing equal opportunity, diversity
management, civil rights, and human resources that further ensure prevention
of individual and systematic discrimination across the enterprise. As the
agency's EEO Director, he is the officer with direct liaison responsibility to
the EEOC, Health and Human Services (HHS), Office of General Counsel (OGC) and
all other respective internal and external customers and stakeholders
regarding employment and civil rights regulatory matters. "Our overarching
strategy is to make CDC a world class model EEO program."

"With malice toward none, and charity for all"

--Abraham Lincoln

Mr. Mebane joined CDC in February 2005 as Chief Management Officer of CDC′s
Coordinating Center for Infectious Diseases (CCID). In this role, he had
direct authority for the management of the estimated $4.0B CCID budget which
included business operations, human capital, information technology, grants,
facilities, and administrative services for the National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention; National Center for Immunization and
Respiratory Diseases; National Center for Preparedness, Detection, and Control
of Infectious Diseases; and National Center for Zoonotic, Vector-Borne and
Enteric Diseases. Under his leadership, CCID grew in size and scope to $7B,
comprising over half the agency's programs, assets, people and EEO activities.

Prior to working at CDC, Mr. Mebane spent over 23 years at FedEx. After
starting his career with the company in 1981, Mr. Mebane was promoted from
dock worker, to manager, to the Director of International Operations. In 2001,
Mr. Mebane moved to Buffalo, New York, to become the Chief Operating Officer
for a $2.0B company that FedEx acquired. In addition to his management duties
at FedEx, Mr. Mebane was the corporate lead for the Diversity training
curriculum for the corporation from 1995 to 1997 where he became part of the
critically acclaimed Fed Ex Leadership Institute. While there he taught
leadership, diversity and management practices to FedEx employees from around
the world.

Outside of his corporate work, Mr. Mebane has served on the faculty of the
University of Memphis, the University of Buffalo and Georgia Tech. He also
worked as a psychotherapist and psychiatric case manager in Memphis during the
national crises associated with homelessness and the de-institutionalization
of the severely mentally ill. As a result of this experience, he was inspired
to later become Chairman of the Memphis Health, Education & Housing Finance
Facility Board (1994-2001). The restructuring of this board under his
chairmanship is his legacy to Memphis in making housing affordable and
sustainable for moderate income families.

Since joining CDC, Mr. Mebane has been very active in serving others and the
community as a proud graduate of Leadership Atlanta, CDC's Speakers Bureau and
the Office of Equal Employment Opportunity's (OEEO) monthly mentoring circles
in addition to serving on the board of directors for Georgia's Visiting Nurse
Association and Sisters of Mercy Health System headquartered in St. Louis.

Page last reviewed: April 1, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home About CDC 24-7

                    * Leadershipplus icon
                      * Director
                      * Principal Deputy Director
                      * CDC Staff Officesplus icon
                        * Office of the Associate Director for Communication (OADC) 
                        * Office of the Associate Director for Policy and Strategy (OADPS)
                        * Chief Medical Officer
                        * Office of the Chief of Staff (OCS)
                        * Office of the Chief Operating Officer (OCOO)
                        * CDC Washington Office
                        * Office of Equal Employment Opportunity (OEEO)
                      * National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)
                      * Public Health Service and Implementation Science (PHSIS)plus icon
                        * Office of Minority Health and Health Equity (OMHHE)
                        * Center for Global Health (CGH)
                        * Center for Preparedness and Response (CPR) 
                        * Center for State, Tribal, Local, and Territorial Support (CSTLTS)
                      * Public Health Science and Surveillance (PHSS)plus icon
                        * Office of Science (OS)
                        * Office of Laboratory Science and Safety (OLSS)
                        * Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Laboratory Services (CSELS)
                        * National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS)
                      * Non-Infectious Diseases (NID)plus icon
                        * National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (NCBDDD)
                        * National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion (NCCDPHP)
                        * National Center for Environmental Health/Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry* (NCEH/ATSDR)
                        * National Center for Injury Prevention and Control (NCIPC)
                      * Infectious Diseases (ID)plus icon
                        * National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD)
                        * National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)
                        * National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention (NCHHSTP)
                      * Past Directors
                    * Speakers Bureauplus icon
                      * Request a Speaker
                      * CDC Director: Speaker Request
                      * Community & School Eventsplus icon
                        * Community Relations
                    * CDC Organizationplus icon
                      * Mission, Role and Pledgeplus icon
                        * Pledge to the American People
                      * Organization Chart
                      * Official Mission Statements & Organizational Charts
                    * A Bold Promise to the Nationplus icon
                      * CDC Strategic Frameworkplus icon
                        * 2019 Progress Report
                      * Securing Global Health
                      * Eliminating Disease 
                      * Ending Epidemics
                      * 2019 CDC Funding
                      * Watch CDC @Work
                      * I Am CDC â Meet the Staff
                    * Fact of the Weekplus icon
                      * Fact of the Week Archives
                    * Business Practicesplus icon
                      * CDC Foundation
                    * Laboratory Science & Safety
                    * Diversity and Inclusion Management
                    * History
                    * More About CDCplus icon
                      * Zika Response & Success Stories
                      * 2014 Ebola Outbreak Responseplus icon
                        * Ebola Report
                      * CDC Archivesplus icon
                        * Advisory Committees

Features Media

Social_round_rss RSS Sign up for Features

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Related Links

                    * CDC Newsroom
                    * CDC Timeline
                    * Gateway to Health
                    * Ethics Program

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

