

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

About CDC 24-7

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD and TB Prevention
(NCHHSTP)

Minus

Related Pages

#### Jonathan Mermin, MD, MPH (RADM, USPHS)

![Director, National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB
Prevention \(NCHHSTP\)](/about/images/leadership/leaders/nchhstp.jpg)

**Jonathan Mermin, MD, MPH,**  is the Director of the National Center for
HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention (NCHHSTP), and a Rear
Admiral in the U.S. Public Health Service. He oversees the nation's efforts to
prevent HIV, viral hepatitis, sexually transmitted diseases, and tuberculosis.
These infections affect millions of Americans and cause tens of thousands of
deaths each year. NCHHSTP focuses on high impact prevention strategies that
are cost-effective, scalable, and grounded in the latest research. These
strategies save lives, save money, reduce health disparities, and protect the
health of all Americans.

From 2009-2013, Dr. Mermin directed CDC's Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention,
overseeing the agency's HIV efforts in the United States. He previously served
as Director of CDC-Kenya and HHS Public Health Attache for the U.S. Embassy
from 2006-2009, and as Director of CDC-Uganda from 1999-2006. In Uganda, he
oversaw implementation of the first antiretroviral treatment program funded by
CDC outside of the United States, gaining practical experience for PEPFAR and
supporting widespread HIV treatment efforts in developing countries.

Dr. Mermin began his career at CDC in 1995 as an EIS officer with the
Foodborne and Diarrheal Diseases Branch. He completed an internal medicine
residency at San Francisco General Hospital and a preventive medicine
residency at CDC and the California Department of Health Services. He is a
graduate of Harvard College and Stanford University School of Medicine, and
received his MPH from Emory University. He has co-authored more than 200
scientific articles and book chapters. He currently serves as an Adjunct
Professor at Emory University School of Public Health.



Page last reviewed: April 1, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home About CDC 24-7

                    * Leadershipplus icon
                      * Director
                      * Principal Deputy Director
                      * CDC Staff Officesplus icon
                        * Office of the Associate Director for Communication (OADC) 
                        * Office of the Associate Director for Policy and Strategy (OADPS)
                        * Chief Medical Officer
                        * Office of the Chief of Staff (OCS)
                        * Office of the Chief Operating Officer (OCOO)
                        * CDC Washington Office
                        * Office of Equal Employment Opportunity (OEEO)
                      * National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)
                      * Public Health Service and Implementation Science (PHSIS)plus icon
                        * Office of Minority Health and Health Equity (OMHHE)
                        * Center for Global Health (CGH)
                        * Center for Preparedness and Response (CPR) 
                        * Center for State, Tribal, Local, and Territorial Support (CSTLTS)
                      * Public Health Science and Surveillance (PHSS)plus icon
                        * Office of Science (OS)
                        * Office of Laboratory Science and Safety (OLSS)
                        * Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Laboratory Services (CSELS)
                        * National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS)
                      * Non-Infectious Diseases (NID)plus icon
                        * National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (NCBDDD)
                        * National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion (NCCDPHP)
                        * National Center for Environmental Health/Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry* (NCEH/ATSDR)
                        * National Center for Injury Prevention and Control (NCIPC)
                      * Infectious Diseases (ID)plus icon
                        * National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD)
                        * National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)
                        * National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention (NCHHSTP)
                      * Past Directors
                    * Speakers Bureauplus icon
                      * Request a Speaker
                      * CDC Director: Speaker Request
                      * Community & School Eventsplus icon
                        * Community Relations
                    * CDC Organizationplus icon
                      * Mission, Role and Pledgeplus icon
                        * Pledge to the American People
                      * Organization Chart
                      * Official Mission Statements & Organizational Charts
                    * A Bold Promise to the Nationplus icon
                      * CDC Strategic Frameworkplus icon
                        * 2019 Progress Report
                      * Securing Global Health
                      * Eliminating Disease 
                      * Ending Epidemics
                      * 2019 CDC Funding
                      * Watch CDC @Work
                      * I Am CDC â Meet the Staff
                    * Fact of the Weekplus icon
                      * Fact of the Week Archives
                    * Business Practicesplus icon
                      * CDC Foundation
                    * Laboratory Science & Safety
                    * Diversity and Inclusion Management
                    * History
                    * More About CDCplus icon
                      * Zika Response & Success Stories
                      * 2014 Ebola Outbreak Responseplus icon
                        * Ebola Report
                      * CDC Archivesplus icon
                        * Advisory Committees

Features Media

Social_round_rss RSS Sign up for Features

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Related Links

                    * CDC Newsroom
                    * CDC Timeline
                    * Gateway to Health
                    * Ethics Program

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

