

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

About CDC 24-7

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# Office of Minority Health and Health Equity (OMHHE)

Minus

Related Pages

#### Leandris Liburd, PhD, MPH, MA

![Associate Director, Office of Minority Health and Health Equity
\(OMHHE\)](/about/images/leadership/leaders/omhhe.jpg)

**Leandris** **Liburd, PhD, MPH, MA** is the Associate Director for the Office
of Minority Health and Health Equity at the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC). In this role she leads a wide range of critical functions in
the agency's work in minority health and health equity, women's health, and
diversity and inclusion management. She plays a critical leadership role in
determining the agency's vision for health equity, ensuring a rigorous,
evidence-based approach to the practice of health equity, and promoting the
ethical practice of public health in vulnerable communities. The Office of
Minority Health and Health Equity ensures a pipeline of diverse undergraduate
and graduate students pursuing careers in public health and medicine through
its administration of the CDC Undergraduate Public Health Scholars Program and
the James A. Ferguson Graduate Fellowship.

Dr. Liburd has been instrumental in building capacity across CDC and in public
health agencies to address the social determinants of health, and in
identifying and widely disseminating intervention strategies that reduce
racial and ethnic health disparities. She has skillfully executed innovative
models of collaboration that have greatly expanded the reach, influence, and
impact of the Office of Minority Health and Health Equity (OMHHE), and raised
the visibility of health equity through peer-reviewed scientific publications,
engagement with academic institutions, presentations at national and
international conferences, partnerships with national and global
organizations, and other communications and educational venues.

Dr. Liburd has received honors for her leadership and management
accomplishments. Among them, Jackson State University presented her with the
John Ruffin Award of Excellence in Minority Health and Health Disparities by
Jackson State University (2016). The Johns Hopkins Center for Health
Disparities Solutions and BlackDoctor.org named her one of the Top Blacks in
Healthcare in 2014 for her outstanding and noteworthy achievements in the
healthcare field. In 2010, the National REACH Coalition honored her with the
Distinguished Service and Leadership Award. In 2002, CDC's Division of
Diabetes Translation presented her with the Excellence in Collaboration Award
for her seminal role in developing local, national, and international
partnerships.

She is highly regarded inside and outside of CDC for her tireless commitment,
effectiveness, leadership, and passion in working to improve minority health
and achieve health equity for all people.

Dr. Liburd holds a bachelor of arts degree from the University of Michigan at
Ann Arbor, a master of public health in health education/health behavior from
the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, a master of arts in cultural
anthropology and a doctor of philosophy degree in medical anthropology from
Emory University.

Page last reviewed: April 1, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home About CDC 24-7

                    * Leadershipplus icon
                      * Director
                      * Principal Deputy Director
                      * CDC Staff Officesplus icon
                        * Office of the Associate Director for Communication (OADC) 
                        * Office of the Associate Director for Policy and Strategy (OADPS)
                        * Chief Medical Officer
                        * Office of the Chief of Staff (OCS)
                        * Office of the Chief Operating Officer (OCOO)
                        * CDC Washington Office
                        * Office of Equal Employment Opportunity (OEEO)
                      * National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)
                      * Public Health Service and Implementation Science (PHSIS)plus icon
                        * Office of Minority Health and Health Equity (OMHHE)
                        * Center for Global Health (CGH)
                        * Center for Preparedness and Response (CPR) 
                        * Center for State, Tribal, Local, and Territorial Support (CSTLTS)
                      * Public Health Science and Surveillance (PHSS)plus icon
                        * Office of Science (OS)
                        * Office of Laboratory Science and Safety (OLSS)
                        * Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Laboratory Services (CSELS)
                        * National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS)
                      * Non-Infectious Diseases (NID)plus icon
                        * National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (NCBDDD)
                        * National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion (NCCDPHP)
                        * National Center for Environmental Health/Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry* (NCEH/ATSDR)
                        * National Center for Injury Prevention and Control (NCIPC)
                      * Infectious Diseases (ID)plus icon
                        * National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD)
                        * National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)
                        * National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention (NCHHSTP)
                      * Past Directors
                    * Speakers Bureauplus icon
                      * Request a Speaker
                      * CDC Director: Speaker Request
                      * Community & School Eventsplus icon
                        * Community Relations
                    * CDC Organizationplus icon
                      * Mission, Role and Pledgeplus icon
                        * Pledge to the American People
                      * Organization Chart
                      * Official Mission Statements & Organizational Charts
                    * A Bold Promise to the Nationplus icon
                      * CDC Strategic Frameworkplus icon
                        * 2019 Progress Report
                      * Securing Global Health
                      * Eliminating Disease 
                      * Ending Epidemics
                      * 2019 CDC Funding
                      * Watch CDC @Work
                      * I Am CDC â Meet the Staff
                    * Fact of the Weekplus icon
                      * Fact of the Week Archives
                    * Business Practicesplus icon
                      * CDC Foundation
                    * Laboratory Science & Safety
                    * Diversity and Inclusion Management
                    * History
                    * More About CDCplus icon
                      * Zika Response & Success Stories
                      * 2014 Ebola Outbreak Responseplus icon
                        * Ebola Report
                      * CDC Archivesplus icon
                        * Advisory Committees

Features Media

Social_round_rss RSS Sign up for Features

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Related Links

                    * CDC Newsroom
                    * CDC Timeline
                    * Gateway to Health
                    * Ethics Program

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

