

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

About CDC 24-7

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# Deputy Director for Non-Infectious Diseases (DDNID)

Minus

Related Pages

#### Celeste Philip, MD, MPH

![Deputy Director for Non-Infectious Diseases
\(DDNID\)](/about/images/leadership/leaders/ondieh.jpg)

**Celeste Philip, MD, MPH** **,** is the Deputy Director for Non-Infectious
Diseases (DDNID) at CDC. In this position, she is responsible for providing
leadership and guidance to CDC′s four non-infectious disease centers and helps
to advance the agency's cross-cutting, non-infectious disease priorities such
as preventing prediabetes and diabetes, ending the opioid epidemic, reducing
birth defects and developmental disabilities, and protecting the public's
health from environmental hazards.

Dr. Philip brings a wealth of public health management, knowledge, and
experience as a physician to the agency. She most recently served as Health
Officer for the Sonoma County Department of Health Services in Santa Rosa,
California, where she oversaw the public health division during a period of
unprecedented response efforts, including the Kincade Fire, numerous public
safety power shut-offs, and health service provisions for a large number of
people experiencing homelessness.

Previously, she was appointed by the Governor of Florida to serve as Florida's
Surgeon General and Secretary of Health from 2016-2018. In this role, she
managed a $3 billion budget and more than 13,000 full-time employees. She led
the state-wide response to the Zika virus; directed the state's Emergency
Support Function--Public Health and Medical Services (ESF8)--during five
hurricanes, including Irma (2017) and Michael (2018); and guided the redesign
of the state's HIV program to provide pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) in all
67 counties. From 2013-2016, Dr. Philip served as Florida's Deputy Secretary
for Health and Deputy State Health Officer for Children's Medical Services.

She served as an EIS officer with the Division of Nutrition, Physical
Activity, and Obesity, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and
Health Promotion from 2006-2008; and completed CDC's Preventive Medicine
Residency as a lieutenant commander in the US Public Health Service with the
Florida Department of Health in Polk County (Bartow, Florida).

Dr. Philip received a bachelor's degree from Howard University (magna cum
laude) in Washington, DC, and both a Master of Public Health degree in
maternal and child health and a Doctor of Medicine degree from Loma Linda
University in California. She is certified by the American Board of Preventive
Medicine and the American Board of Family Medicine and holds medical licenses
in both Florida and California.

Dr. Philip is a recipient of numerous awards; published a number of medical
journal articles; and served on many boards, advisory councils, and volunteer
positions over the course of her career.

Page last reviewed: January 13, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home About CDC 24-7

                    * Leadershipplus icon
                      * Director
                      * Principal Deputy Director
                      * CDC Staff Officesplus icon
                        * Office of the Associate Director for Communication (OADC) 
                        * Office of the Associate Director for Policy and Strategy (OADPS)
                        * Chief Medical Officer
                        * Office of the Chief of Staff (OCS)
                        * Office of the Chief Operating Officer (OCOO)
                        * CDC Washington Office
                        * Office of Equal Employment Opportunity (OEEO)
                      * National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)
                      * Public Health Service and Implementation Science (PHSIS)plus icon
                        * Office of Minority Health and Health Equity (OMHHE)
                        * Center for Global Health (CGH)
                        * Center for Preparedness and Response (CPR) 
                        * Center for State, Tribal, Local, and Territorial Support (CSTLTS)
                      * Public Health Science and Surveillance (PHSS)plus icon
                        * Office of Science (OS)
                        * Office of Laboratory Science and Safety (OLSS)
                        * Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Laboratory Services (CSELS)
                        * National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS)
                      * Non-Infectious Diseases (NID)plus icon
                        * National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (NCBDDD)
                        * National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion (NCCDPHP)
                        * National Center for Environmental Health/Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry* (NCEH/ATSDR)
                        * National Center for Injury Prevention and Control (NCIPC)
                      * Infectious Diseases (ID)plus icon
                        * National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD)
                        * National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)
                        * National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention (NCHHSTP)
                      * Past Directors
                    * Speakers Bureauplus icon
                      * Request a Speaker
                      * CDC Director: Speaker Request
                      * Community & School Eventsplus icon
                        * Community Relations
                    * CDC Organizationplus icon
                      * Mission, Role and Pledgeplus icon
                        * Pledge to the American People
                      * Organization Chart
                      * Official Mission Statements & Organizational Charts
                    * A Bold Promise to the Nationplus icon
                      * CDC Strategic Frameworkplus icon
                        * 2019 Progress Report
                      * Securing Global Health
                      * Eliminating Disease 
                      * Ending Epidemics
                      * 2019 CDC Funding
                      * Watch CDC @Work
                      * I Am CDC â Meet the Staff
                    * Fact of the Weekplus icon
                      * Fact of the Week Archives
                    * Business Practicesplus icon
                      * CDC Foundation
                    * Laboratory Science & Safety
                    * Diversity and Inclusion Management
                    * History
                    * More About CDCplus icon
                      * Zika Response & Success Stories
                      * 2014 Ebola Outbreak Responseplus icon
                        * Ebola Report
                      * CDC Archivesplus icon
                        * Advisory Committees

Features Media

Social_round_rss RSS Sign up for Features

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Related Links

                    * CDC Newsroom
                    * CDC Timeline
                    * Gateway to Health
                    * Ethics Program

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

