

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                      * Facebook
                                      * Twitter
                                      * LinkedIn
                                      * Email
                                      * Syndicate

### Adopting a Child from Another Country (Intercountry Adoption)

![adult and child holding hands](/travel/images/child-adult-hands.jpg)

Each year, parents in the United States adopt more than 5,000 children from
all over the world. Adopting a child from another country is can be a
wonderful and exciting event for families. The health of both the child and
their parents and family is one of many issues that needs to be addressed
during the adoption process.  

If you are adopting a child from another country,

                                      * Consider a preadoption medical review with a pediatrician who is familiar with the health issues of children adopted from other countries to review the available medical history and vaccination record for the child,
                                      * Plan for safe travel overseas for both you and your child, and
                                      * Arrange for your child to have a medical exam with a pediatrician specializing in adoption health soon after you return home.

### Before Your Trip

To understand more about possible health concerns for your child, you should
consider a preadoption medical review with a pediatrician who is familiar with
the health issues of children adopted internationally to review the available
medical history and vaccination record for the child. You should not rely on
only the required overseas medical examination (see below) in the immigrant
visa process to detect all possible disabilities and illnesses.

At least one month before you go abroad to unite with your child, schedule a
visit with a travel medicine specialist or your doctor to discuss disease
risks, vaccinations, medications, and advice for your destination. General
guidance for traveling internationally with children also applies to your
child who you are bringing home to the United States.

People in the United States who will have close contact with your child
(including extended family and caregivers) should be up to date on routine
vaccines, as well as have immunity to hepatitis A and B. They should also have
a Tdap booster to prevent pertussis (whooping cough) and, depending on the
child's country of origin, a booster of polio vaccine. **It is important for
everyone who has contact with your child to be fully vaccinated** , even if
they do not live in the same home; illnesses have been spread from children
adopted from other countries to grandparents, aunts, uncles, cousins, and
other caregivers in the United States.

### During Your Trip: The Overseas Medical Exam

![father and son](/travel/images/dad-boy.jpg)

At least 4-6 weeks before you depart to unite with your child, schedule a
visit with a travel medicine specialist to discuss disease risks in the
destination country and what you can do to avoid them. Your travel medicine
specialist may recommend vaccines to protect against diseases in that country.
Your travel medicine specialist can also give you advice on travel safety,
food and water precautions, and preventing travelers' diarrhea. General
guidance for traveling internationally with children also applies to the
adopted child you are bringing home.

People at home who will have close contact with your child (including extended
family and caregivers) should be up-to-date on routine vaccines, as well as
being vaccinated against hepatitis A and B. They should also have a booster of
the vaccine that prevents pertussis (whooping cough) and, depending on the
child's country of origin, a booster of polio vaccine. It is important for
everyone who has contact with the child to be vaccinated, even if they do not
live in the same home; there have been cases of illnesses spread from
internationally adopted children to grandparents, aunts, uncles, cousins, and
other caregivers.

### The Overseas Medical Exam

![doctor examining child ](/travel/images/doctor-child.jpg)

Children who are being adopted overseas by US citizens must have a medical
exam in their country of origin, performed by a doctor specially designated by
the US Department of State. This exam is designed to detect certain serious
illnesses, such as tuberculosis, and should not be relied on to detect all
possible health conditions. Additional information about the overseas medical
exam is available from the Department of State:
http://adoption.state.gov/adoption_process/how_to_adopt/health.php.

### After Your Trip: The Follow-Up Medical Exam in the United States

Within two weeks of arrival in the United States, your child should have
another medical exam to assess his or her general health and screen for other
infections, such as intestinal parasites, which are common in internationally
adopted children. In some circumstances, screening for developmental delays
can be considered.

### More Information

                                      * International Adoption: Health Guidance and the Immigration Process

* * *

Page last reviewed: November 18, 2019

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                      * Destinations
                                      * Find a Clinicexpand
                                        * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                          * FAQ
                                      * Travel Notices
                                      * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                        * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                          * Clinical Updates
                                          * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                          * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                          * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                          * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                        * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                          * After Travel Tips
                                          * Animal Safety
                                          * Before You Travel Tips
                                          * Blood Clots
                                          * Bug Bites
                                          * Business Travel
                                          * Cold Climates
                                          * Counterfeit Medicines
                                          * Cruise Ship Travel
                                          * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                          * During Travel Tips
                                          * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                          * Food and Water
                                          * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                            * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                          * High Altitudes
                                          * Holiday Travel
                                          * Hot Climates
                                          * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                          * Insurance
                                          * International Adoption
                                          * Jet Lag
                                          * Last-Minute Travel
                                          * Long-Term Travel
                                          * Lunar New Year
                                          * Mass Gatherings
                                          * Medical Tourism
                                          * Mental Health
                                          * Motion Sickness
                                          * Natural Disasters
                                          * Pack Smart
                                          * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                            * Posters
                                            * Prevent Bug Bites
                                            * Recently in American Tropics?
                                            * Going to American Tropics?
                                            * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                            * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                            * Food and Water: What to Know
                                            * Road Safety
                                            * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                            * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                            * MERS Pictogram
                                            * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                            * Website Guide
                                            * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                            * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                            * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                            * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                            * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                          * Pregnant Travelers
                                          * Road Safety
                                          * Routine Vaccines
                                          * Senior Citizens
                                          * Sex Tourism
                                          * Spring Break Travel
                                          * STDs
                                          * Study Abroad
                                          * Summer Travel Abroad
                                          * Sun Exposure
                                          * Tick Bites
                                          * Travel to the Extreme
                                          * Travel Vaccines
                                          * Traveler Survival Guide
                                          * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                          * Traveling with Children
                                          * Traveling with Your Pet
                                          * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                          * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                          * Travelers with Disability
                                          * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                          * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                          * Water Disinfection
                                          * Water Safety Abroad
                                          * Mobile Apps
                                          * RSS Feeds
                                        * Travel Industry Resources
                                        * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                      * Disease Directoryexpand
                                        * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                        * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                          * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                      * Yellow Bookexpand
                                        * Contents
                                          * Chapter 1
                                            * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                            * Travel Epidemiology
                                            *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                        * Tables
                                        * Maps
                                        * Figures
                                        * Boxes
                                        * Updates
                                        * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                          * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                      * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                        * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                        * Adobe PDF file
                                        * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                        * Microsoft Word file
                                        * Microsoft Excel file
                                        * Audio/Video file
                                        * Apple Quicktime file
                                        * RealPlayer file
                                        * Text file
                                        * Zip Archive file
                                        * SAS file
                                        * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                        * About CDC
                                        * Jobs
                                        * Funding
                                        * Policies
                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                        * Privacy
                                        * FOIA
                                        * No Fear Act
                                        * OIG
                                        * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                        * Facebook
                                        * Twitter
                                        * Youtube
                                        * Instagram
  

                                        * Syndicate
                                        * CDC TV
                                        * RSS
                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                        * Email
                                        * Recommend
                                        * Tweet
                                        * Post
                                        * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                        * Listen
                                        * Watch
                                        * eCards
                                        * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

