

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                      * Facebook
                                                      * Twitter
                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                      * Email
                                                      * Syndicate

### Traveling with Children

![Family taking a selfie](/travel/images/children-family-selfie.jpg)

An estimated 2.4 million children from the United States travel
internationally each year, and the number is increasing. In general, children
face most of the same health risks as their parents, but the consequences can
be more serious. Some conditions can be difficult to recognize in children,
especially in those who aren't talking yet. If you are planning to travel to
another country with your kids, be familiar with the risks of travel to help
them stay safe and healthy.

### Pretravel Care

A visit to a travel medicine provider before your trip can help protect you
and your children at your destination. Ideally, your family should see a
health care provider at least one month before your international trip to get
needed vaccines and medicines. Your doctor or nurse will also counsel you on
other ways to reduce your family's risk of illness or injury during travel.

### Vaccines

If possible, children should complete their routine childhood vaccines on the
normal schedule before traveling overseas. However, some vaccines can also be
given on an "accelerated" schedule, meaning doses are given in a shorter
period of time. Some travel vaccines cannot be given to very young children,
so it's important to check with a travel medicine doctor, who should consult
your child's pediatrician, as early as possible before travel.

### Diarrhea

Diarrhea is among the most common illnesses experienced by children who are
traveling abroad.

##### **Prevention**

For infants, breastfeeding is the best way to prevent diarrhea. Older children
visiting developing countries should follow basic food and water precautions:

                                                      * Eat only food that is cooked and served hot.
                                                      * Eat fresh fruits and vegetables that you peeled or washed yourself in clean water.
                                                      * Drink only beverages from sealed containers or water that has been boiled or treated. This includes water used to prepare infant formula.
                                                      * Wash their hands with soap and water. If soap and water are not available, you can use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol.

For short trips, you may want to bring a supply of safe snacks from home for
times when the children are hungry and the available food may not be appealing
or safe.

##### **Treatment**

Diarrhea can be serious in infants and small children because of the risk of
dehydration. The best treatment for diarrhea in children is to give plenty of
fluids; there is usually no need to give medicine. Keep in mind:

                                                      * Oral rehydration salts (available online or in stores in most developing countries) may be used to prevent dehydration.
                                                      * Over-the-counter drugs that contain bismuth (Pepto-Bismol or Kaopectate) should NOT be used in children, and antibiotics are usually reserved for serious cases.
                                                      * Other common treatments for diarrhea, such as loperamide, are not recommended for children younger than 6 years old.

If your child appears to be severely dehydrated, or has a fever or bloody
stools, get medical attention immediately.

### Malaria and Other Diseases Spread by Bugs

![Mom spraying insect repellent on son's legs](/travel/images/children-
repellent.jpg)

Diseases spread by mosquitoes, such as Zika, chikungunya, malaria, dengue, and
yellow fever, are common throughout Asia, Africa, South America, and Europe.

##### **Prevention**

Help your children prevent mosquito bites and use insect repellent:

                                                      * Children should wear insect repellent and long pants and sleeves. Permethrin can be applied to clothes for extra protection.
                                                      * Do not use insect repellents on babies younger than 2 months old.
                                                      * For babies younger than 2 months old, protect them by draping mosquito netting over their carrier or car seat. Netting should have an elastic edge for a tight fit.
                                                      * Do not use repellents containing oil of lemon eucalyptus (OLE) or para-menthane-diol (PMD) on children younger than 3 years old.
                                                      * At night, children should sleep in screened, air-conditioned rooms or under a bed net.

##### **Malaria**

Malaria is among the most serious and life-threatening infections that can be
acquired by children abroad. Children visiting friends and relatives in
developing countries may be at higher risk because they are more likely to be
in areas where malaria is commonly found.

Children who travel to areas where malaria is present should take medicine to
prevent malaria, just like their parents. Your health care provider can tell
you which malaria medicine is best for your child. Many of these drugs have a
bitter taste, but a pharmacist can crush the capsules and put the powder in a
flavorless gelatin capsule. Because of the risk of overdose, malaria drugs
should be stored in childproof containers and kept out of the reach of
children. Malaria drugs are not 100% effective, and other diseases are also
spread by insects, so children (and their parents!) should avoid bug bites,
even if they are taking malaria medicine.

### Rabies

Rabies is spread through animal bites or scratches. Although it is rare,
rabies is almost always fatal if not treated promptly. Rabies is more common
in children than in adults because children are more likely to try to pet
strange animals. Tell your children to stay away from all animals, but
reassure them that if they do get bitten, they should tell an adult
immediately. Any animal bite should be washed thoroughly with soap and water
and must receive medical attention as soon as possible.

### Road Safety

Car crashes are the leading cause of death in children who travel abroad. In
general, children are safest traveling in the back seat, but no one should
ever travel in the back of a pickup truck. In many developing countries, cars
may lack front or rear seatbelts.

When using transportation or renting vehicles in other countries:

                                                      * Make sure there are seatbelts and other safety features.
                                                      * Children should always ride in age-appropriate car seats when traveling.
                                                      * Plan to bring car seats because they may not be available in many countries or meet US safety standards.

### Drowning and Water-Related Illness and Injuries

![Children snorkeling with fish](/travel/images/children-fish.jpg)

Drowning is the second leading cause of death in children who travel abroad.
Children should be supervised closely and should always wear a life preserver
around water. Children should not swim in fresh, unchlorinated water such as
lakes or ponds, because some infections (such as schistosomiasis and
leptospirosis) are spread by contact with fresh water.

### More Information

                                                      * Avoid Bug Bites
                                                      * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                      * Malaria and Travelers
                                                      * Rabies
                                                      * Road Safety Abroad
                                                      * Safe Swimming and Diving

* * *

Page last reviewed: February 05, 2020

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                      * Destinations
                                                      * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                        * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                          * FAQ
                                                      * Travel Notices
                                                      * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                        * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                          * Clinical Updates
                                                          * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                          * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                          * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                          * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                        * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                          * After Travel Tips
                                                          * Animal Safety
                                                          * Before You Travel Tips
                                                          * Blood Clots
                                                          * Bug Bites
                                                          * Business Travel
                                                          * Cold Climates
                                                          * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                          * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                          * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                          * During Travel Tips
                                                          * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                          * Food and Water
                                                          * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                            * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                          * High Altitudes
                                                          * Holiday Travel
                                                          * Hot Climates
                                                          * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                          * Insurance
                                                          * International Adoption
                                                          * Jet Lag
                                                          * Last-Minute Travel
                                                          * Long-Term Travel
                                                          * Lunar New Year
                                                          * Mass Gatherings
                                                          * Medical Tourism
                                                          * Mental Health
                                                          * Motion Sickness
                                                          * Natural Disasters
                                                          * Pack Smart
                                                          * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                            * Posters
                                                            * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                            * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                            * Going to American Tropics?
                                                            * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                            * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                            * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                            * Road Safety
                                                            * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                            * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                            * MERS Pictogram
                                                            * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                            * Website Guide
                                                            * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                            * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                            * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                            * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                            * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                          * Pregnant Travelers
                                                          * Road Safety
                                                          * Routine Vaccines
                                                          * Senior Citizens
                                                          * Sex Tourism
                                                          * Spring Break Travel
                                                          * STDs
                                                          * Study Abroad
                                                          * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                          * Sun Exposure
                                                          * Tick Bites
                                                          * Travel to the Extreme
                                                          * Travel Vaccines
                                                          * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                          * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                          * Traveling with Children
                                                          * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                          * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                          * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                          * Travelers with Disability
                                                          * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                          * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                          * Water Disinfection
                                                          * Water Safety Abroad
                                                          * Mobile Apps
                                                          * RSS Feeds
                                                        * Travel Industry Resources
                                                        * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                      * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                        * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                        * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                          * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                      * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                        * Contents
                                                          * Chapter 1
                                                            * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                            * Travel Epidemiology
                                                            *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                        * Tables
                                                        * Maps
                                                        * Figures
                                                        * Boxes
                                                        * Updates
                                                        * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                          * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                      * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                        * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                        * Adobe PDF file
                                                        * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                        * Microsoft Word file
                                                        * Microsoft Excel file
                                                        * Audio/Video file
                                                        * Apple Quicktime file
                                                        * RealPlayer file
                                                        * Text file
                                                        * Zip Archive file
                                                        * SAS file
                                                        * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                        * About CDC
                                                        * Jobs
                                                        * Funding
                                                        * Policies
                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                        * Privacy
                                                        * FOIA
                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                        * OIG
                                                        * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                        * Facebook
                                                        * Twitter
                                                        * Youtube
                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                        * Syndicate
                                                        * CDC TV
                                                        * RSS
                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                        * Email
                                                        * Recommend
                                                        * Tweet
                                                        * Post
                                                        * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                        * Listen
                                                        * Watch
                                                        * eCards
                                                        * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

