

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                * Facebook
                                                                * Twitter
                                                                * LinkedIn
                                                                * Email
                                                                * Syndicate

### Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems

Many illnesses can weaken the immune system, including HIV/AIDS, cancer, liver
disease, kidney disease, and multiple sclerosis. In addition, many medicines
can weaken the immune system, including steroids, cancer chemotherapy, and
drugs used to treat autoimmune diseases like rheumatoid arthritis or
psoriasis. Regardless of the cause, if you have a weakened immune system and
are planning a trip overseas, make an appointment with your doctor or a travel
medicine specialist to talk about what you should do to prepare for safe and
healthy travel.

#### Before You Go

Make an appointment with a doctor at least a month before your trip to discuss
vaccines, medications, and travel health advice.

No matter where you go, wash your hands often. Also, try to avoid touching
surfaces that other people have touched, such as doorknobs and stair rails,
with your bare hands.

### **Vaccines**

![woman getting injection](/travel/images/woman-injection.jpg)

Check CDC's destination tool to see the vaccines recommended for your
destination, and talk to your doctor about which are right for you.

If you have a weakened immune system, you can safely receive most vaccines
recommended for travelers. However, the vaccines may be less effective than in
people with fully healthy immune systems. Your doctor may recommend blood
tests to confirm that a vaccine you received will provide you with adequate
protection against disease, or suggest additional precautions to keep you
safe.

Vaccines made from live viruses, such as MMR (measles, mumps, and rubella) and
varicella, however, are not safe for many people with weakened immune systems.
Talk to your doctor what your options are for protecting yourself against
these diseases.

Yellow fever vaccine is another example of a vaccine made from a live virus.
People whose immune systems are very weak, such as people with low T-cell
counts due to HIV infection or people receiving cancer chemotherapy, should
not receive yellow fever vaccine. If there is a risk of yellow fever at your
destination, CDC recommends delaying your trip until your immune system is
healthy enough for you to receive the vaccine. Some countries may require the
vaccine, even if there is no risk of yellow fever. If that is the case, ask
your doctor about a medical waiver for the vaccine.

### Medicines

![taking pills](/travel/images/taking-pills.jpg)

Make sure your doctor knows about all the medicines you take regularly,
including vitamin supplements, so that they can anticipate potential
interactions.

You may need to take medicine to prevent malaria _,_ depending on your
destination. People with weakened immune systems can get seriously ill from
malaria. It is important to follow closely your doctor's instructions for
taking the medicine, which may include taking it for several weeks before and
after the trip. You should also take steps to avoid mosquito bites: wear
insect repellent, wear long pants and sleeves, and sleep under a bed net if
your rooms are open to the outdoors.

Depending on where you are going and what you will be doing, your doctor may
also prescribe medicine to prevent altitude illness or to treat travelers'
diarrhea(/travel/page/travelers-diarrhea). People with weakened immune systems
are especially prone to travelers' diarrhea. Be sure to follow CDC's advice
for eating and drinking safely.

Overall, if you are feeling sick, do not travel before talking to your doctor.

### More Information

Yellow Book: Immunocompromised Travelers



* * *

Page last reviewed: November 18, 2019

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                * Destinations
                                                                * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                  * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                    * FAQ
                                                                * Travel Notices
                                                                * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                  * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                    * Clinical Updates
                                                                    * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                    * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                    * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                    * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                  * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                    * After Travel Tips
                                                                    * Animal Safety
                                                                    * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                    * Blood Clots
                                                                    * Bug Bites
                                                                    * Business Travel
                                                                    * Cold Climates
                                                                    * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                    * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                    * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                    * During Travel Tips
                                                                    * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                    * Food and Water
                                                                    * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                      * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                    * High Altitudes
                                                                    * Holiday Travel
                                                                    * Hot Climates
                                                                    * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                    * Insurance
                                                                    * International Adoption
                                                                    * Jet Lag
                                                                    * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                    * Long-Term Travel
                                                                    * Lunar New Year
                                                                    * Mass Gatherings
                                                                    * Medical Tourism
                                                                    * Mental Health
                                                                    * Motion Sickness
                                                                    * Natural Disasters
                                                                    * Pack Smart
                                                                    * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                      * Posters
                                                                      * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                      * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                      * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                      * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                      * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                      * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                      * Road Safety
                                                                      * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                      * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                      * MERS Pictogram
                                                                      * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                      * Website Guide
                                                                      * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                      * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                      * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                      * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                      * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                    * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                    * Road Safety
                                                                    * Routine Vaccines
                                                                    * Senior Citizens
                                                                    * Sex Tourism
                                                                    * Spring Break Travel
                                                                    * STDs
                                                                    * Study Abroad
                                                                    * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                    * Sun Exposure
                                                                    * Tick Bites
                                                                    * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                    * Travel Vaccines
                                                                    * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                    * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                    * Traveling with Children
                                                                    * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                    * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                    * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                    * Travelers with Disability
                                                                    * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                    * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                    * Water Disinfection
                                                                    * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                    * Mobile Apps
                                                                    * RSS Feeds
                                                                  * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                  * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                  * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                  * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                    * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                  * Contents
                                                                    * Chapter 1
                                                                      * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                      * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                      *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                  * Tables
                                                                  * Maps
                                                                  * Figures
                                                                  * Boxes
                                                                  * Updates
                                                                  * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                    * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                  * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                  * Adobe PDF file
                                                                  * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                  * Microsoft Word file
                                                                  * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                  * Audio/Video file
                                                                  * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                  * RealPlayer file
                                                                  * Text file
                                                                  * Zip Archive file
                                                                  * SAS file
                                                                  * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                  * Funding
                                                                  * Policies
                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                  * OIG
                                                                  * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                  * RSS
                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                  * Email
                                                                  * Recommend
                                                                  * Tweet
                                                                  * Post
                                                                  * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                  * Listen
                                                                  * Watch
                                                                  * eCards
                                                                  * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

