

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Meningitis

Section Navigation

CDC Home

              * Facebook
              * Twitter
              * LinkedIn
              * Email
              * Syndicate

# Meningitis

Minus

Related Pages

![Woman with headache](/meningitis/images/header_vp4.jpg)

Meningitis is an inflammation (swelling) of the protective membranes covering
the brain and spinal cord. A bacterial or viral infection of the fluid
surrounding the brain and spinal cord usually causes the swelling. However,
injuries, cancer, certain drugs, and other types of infections also can cause
meningitis. It is important to know the specific cause of meningitis because
the treatment differs depending on the cause.

Bacterial Meningitis

Meningitis caused by bacteria can be deadly and requires immediate medical
attention. Vaccines are available to help protect against some kinds of
bacterial meningitis.

Viral Meningitis

Meningitis caused by viruses is serious but often is less severe than
bacterial meningitis. People with normal immune systems who get viral
meningitis usually get better on their own. There are vaccines to prevent some
kinds of viral meningitis.

Fungal Meningitis

Meningitis caused by fungi is rare, but people can get it by inhaling fungal
spores from the environment. People with certain medical conditions, like
diabetes, cancer, or HIV, are at higher risk of fungal meningitis.

Parasitic Meningitis

Various parasites can cause meningitis or can affect the brain or nervous
system in other ways. Overall, parasitic meningitis is much less common than
viral and bacterial meningitis.

Amebic Meningitis

Primary amebic meningoencephalitis (PAM) is a rare and devastating infection
of the brain caused by _Naegleria fowleri_. _Naegleria fowleri_ is a free-
living microscopic ameba that lives in warm water and soil.

Non-Infectious Meningitis

Sometimes cancers, systemic lupus erythematosus (lupus), certain drugs, head
injury, and brain surgery can cause meningitis.

How it Spreads

![Doctor with patient.](/meningitis/images/doctor-girl.jpg)

##### Bacterial Meningitis

Generally, the germs that cause bacterial meningitis spread from one person to
another. Certain germs can spread through food. How people spread the germs
often depends on the type of bacteria. Read about common examples of how
people spread the different types of bacteria to each other.

##### Viral Meningitis

People can spread the viruses that cause viral meningitis to other people. If
you have close contact with someone who has viral meningitis, they may spread
the virus to you. However, you are not likely to develop meningitis. That's
because most people infected with these viruses will not develop meningitis.

College Outbreaks

 **San Diego State University**

San Diego State University (SDSU) is experiencing an outbreak of serogroup B
meningococcal disease. San Diego County's public health officer recommends
vaccination for all SDSU undergraduate students 23 years old and younger.
Learn more from SDSUexternal icon.

Meningitis Versus Meningococcal Disease:There IS a Difference

![Sick boy](/meningitis/images/sick-boy.jpg)

Having meningitis doesn't always mean you have meningococcal disease. And
having meningococcal disease doesn't necessarily mean you have meningitis.
Meningococcal disease is any illness caused by a type of bacteria called
_Neisseria meningitidis_. These illnesses are serious and include meningitis
and bloodstream infections (septicemia).  More about meningococcal disease…

Resources for Healthcare Professionals

![Healthcare resources](/meningitis/images/hcp-resources.jpg)

Get clinical disease information, as well as vaccine recommendations and
vaccination resources, for common causes of meningitis.

More

World Meningitis Day

![World Meningitis Day April 24, 24 Hours, Life After
Meningitis](/meningitis/images/logo-life-after-meningitis.png)

              * Did you know April 24th is World Meningitis Day? Learn about this year's eventexternal icon.
              * You can also find out more about a Technical Task Force that will develop a strategic global meningitis control road map as part of "Defeating meningitis by 2030external icon."

Page last reviewed: January 21, 2020

Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases

home Meningitis Home

              * Bacterial Meningitis expand
                * Laboratory Methods for the Diagnosis of Meningitis expand
                  * Disclosure
                  * Authors/Acknowledgements
                  * Chapter 1
                  * Chapter 2
                  * Chapter 3
                  * Chapter 4
                  * Chapter 5
                  * Chapter 6
                  * Chapter 7
                  * Chapter 8
                  * Chapter 9
                  * Chapter 10
                  * Chapter 11
                  * Chapter 12
                  * Chapter 13
                  * Chapter 14
                  * Annex
              * Viral Meningitis
              * Fungal Meningitis
              * Parasitic Meningitis
              * Amebic Meningitis
              * Non-infectious Meningitis
              * Resources for Healthcare Professionals

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

              * About CDC
              * Jobs
              * Funding
              * Policies
              * File Viewers & Players

              * Privacy
              * FOIA
              * No Fear Act
              * OIG
              * Nondiscrimination
              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

              * Facebook
              * Twitter
              * Youtube
              * Instagram
  

              * Syndicate
              * CDC TV
              * RSS
              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

              * Facebook
              * Twitter
              * LinkedIn
              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

