

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                          * Email
                                                                          * Syndicate

### Tick-borne Encephalitis

On This Page

                                                                          * What is tick-borne encephalitis (TBE)?
                                                                          * Who is at risk?
                                                                          * What can travelers do to prevent TBE?
                                                                          * Traveler Information
                                                                          * Clinician Information

### What is tick-borne encephalitis (TBE)?

Tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) is an illness caused by a virus spread through
tick bites. You can also get TBE by eating or drinking unpasteurized dairy
products (such as milk and cheese) from infected goats, sheep, or cows.

Symptoms include fever, achiness, loss of appetite, headache, nausea, and
vomiting. Swelling of the brain and/or spinal cord, confusion, and sensory
disturbances occur in 20-30% of people with TBE. One percent of people die
from this infection.

### Who is at risk?

![tick](/travel/images/tick.jpg)

TBE is found in many parts of Europe and Asia (from eastern France to northern
Japan and from northern Russia to Albania). Several thousand cases are
reported each year, but there are probably many other cases that do not get
reported. The highest number of cases occurs in Russia. Other countries with
high risk for disease are Czech Republic, Estonia, Germany, Hungary, Latvia,
Lithuania, Poland, Slovenia, Sweden, Switzerland, China, Japan, Mongolia, and
South Korea.  Travelers are more likely to get TBE from April through November
(mostly in early and late summer) and when traveling to forested areas where
ticks are common.

### What can travelers do to prevent TBE?

There is no vaccine that prevents TBE that is available in the United States,
but it is available in some other countries. Travelers anticipating high-risk
activities may consider being vaccinated in Canada or Europe. High-risk
activities include working or camping in forested areas or farmland, adventure
travel, or living in countries where TBE is present for an extended period of
time.

All travelers should take these steps to prevent TBE:

#### Eat only pasteurized dairy products (such as milk and cheese).

![man spraying insect repellent on his arm](/travel/images/bugspray.jpg)

#### Prevent tick bites:

                                                                          * Cover exposed skin by wearing long-sleeved shirts, long pants, and hats. 
                                                                            * Tuck in shirts, tuck pants into socks, and wear closed shoes instead of sandals to prevent bites.
                                                                          * Avoid wooded and brushy areas with high grass, brush, and leaves. Walk in the center of hiking trails.
                                                                          * Use a repellent that contains **20% or more DEET** for  protection that lasts up to several hours. 
                                                                            * Products containing DEET include Off!, Cutter, Sawyer, and Ultrathon.
                                                                          * Always follow product directions and reapply as directed. 
                                                                            * If you are also using sunscreen, apply sunscreen first and insect repellent second.
                                                                            * Follow package directions when applying repellent on children. Avoid applying repellent to their hands, eyes, and mouth.
                                                                          * Use permethrin-treated clothing and gear (such as boots, pants, socks, and tents). You can buy pre-treated clothing and gear or treat them yourself. 
                                                                            * Treated clothing remains protective after multiple washings. See the product information to find out how long the protection will last.
                                                                            * If treating items yourself, follow the product instructions carefully.
                                                                            * Do **not** use permethrin directly on skin.

#### Find and remove ticks from your body:

                                                                          * Bathe or shower as soon as possible after coming indoors.
                                                                          * Check your entire body (under your arms, in and around your ears, in your belly button, behind your knees, between your legs, around your waist, and especially in your hair). Use a hand-held or full-length mirror to view all parts of your body. 
                                                                            * Be sure to remove ticks properly.
                                                                            * Parents should check their children for ticks.
                                                                          * Check your pets and belongings. Ticks can be on outdoor equipment and clothes.

#### If you feel sick and think you may have TBE:

                                                                          * Talk to your doctor or nurse if you feel seriously ill, especially if you have a fever. 
                                                                            * Tell them about your travel.
                                                                            * For more information about medical care abroad, see Getting Health Care Abroad and a list of International Joint Commission-accredited facilities.

### Traveler Information

                                                                          * Avoid Bug Bites \- Information for travelers
                                                                          * Insect Repellent Use and Safety

### Clinician Information

                                                                          * Tick-borne Encephalitis in _CDC Yellow Book, Health Information for International Travel_ \- "Yellow Book"
                                                                          * Protection against Mosquitoes, Ticks, & Other Insects & Arthropods

* * *

Page last reviewed: January 12, 2018

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                          * Destinations
                                                                          * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                            * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                              * FAQ
                                                                          * Travel Notices
                                                                          * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                            * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                              * Clinical Updates
                                                                              * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                              * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                              * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                              * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                            * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                              * After Travel Tips
                                                                              * Animal Safety
                                                                              * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                              * Blood Clots
                                                                              * Bug Bites
                                                                              * Business Travel
                                                                              * Cold Climates
                                                                              * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                              * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                              * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                              * During Travel Tips
                                                                              * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                              * Food and Water
                                                                              * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                              * High Altitudes
                                                                              * Holiday Travel
                                                                              * Hot Climates
                                                                              * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                              * Insurance
                                                                              * International Adoption
                                                                              * Jet Lag
                                                                              * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                              * Long-Term Travel
                                                                              * Lunar New Year
                                                                              * Mass Gatherings
                                                                              * Medical Tourism
                                                                              * Mental Health
                                                                              * Motion Sickness
                                                                              * Natural Disasters
                                                                              * Pack Smart
                                                                              * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                * Posters
                                                                                * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                * Road Safety
                                                                                * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                * Website Guide
                                                                                * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                              * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                              * Road Safety
                                                                              * Routine Vaccines
                                                                              * Senior Citizens
                                                                              * Sex Tourism
                                                                              * Spring Break Travel
                                                                              * STDs
                                                                              * Study Abroad
                                                                              * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                              * Sun Exposure
                                                                              * Tick Bites
                                                                              * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                              * Travel Vaccines
                                                                              * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                              * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                              * Traveling with Children
                                                                              * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                              * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                              * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                              * Travelers with Disability
                                                                              * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                              * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                              * Water Disinfection
                                                                              * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                              * Mobile Apps
                                                                              * RSS Feeds
                                                                            * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                            * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                          * Disease Directory (41)expand
                                                                            * Tick-borne Encephalitis
                                                                            * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                            * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                              * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                          * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                            * Contents
                                                                              * Chapter 1
                                                                                * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                            * Tables
                                                                            * Maps
                                                                            * Figures
                                                                            * Boxes
                                                                            * Updates
                                                                            * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                              * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                          * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                            * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                            * Adobe PDF file
                                                                            * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                            * Microsoft Word file
                                                                            * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                            * Audio/Video file
                                                                            * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                            * RealPlayer file
                                                                            * Text file
                                                                            * Zip Archive file
                                                                            * SAS file
                                                                            * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                            * About CDC
                                                                            * Jobs
                                                                            * Funding
                                                                            * Policies
                                                                            * File Viewers & Players

                                                                            * Privacy
                                                                            * FOIA
                                                                            * No Fear Act
                                                                            * OIG
                                                                            * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                            * Facebook
                                                                            * Twitter
                                                                            * Youtube
                                                                            * Instagram
  

                                                                            * Syndicate
                                                                            * CDC TV
                                                                            * RSS
                                                                            * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                            * Email
                                                                            * Recommend
                                                                            * Tweet
                                                                            * Post
                                                                            * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                            * Listen
                                                                            * Watch
                                                                            * eCards
                                                                            * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                            * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                            * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                            * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                            * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

