

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                * Facebook
                                                                                * Twitter
                                                                                * LinkedIn
                                                                                * Email
                                                                                * Syndicate

### Travel to the Extreme

![Hiker](/travel/images/hiker-extreme.jpg)

**Is an off-the-grid adventure on your bucket list this year?**

**From frigid Antarctica to the uninhabited islands of the Pacific --be ready
when you go where most do not. Learn about your risks and prepare for a fun
and safe trip with ****CDC Travelers' Health**.

Adventure travel has become a popular way to explore new destinations and test
your physical abilities. Adventure travel includes "extreme" activities such
as mountaineering, backpacking, diving, surfing, bungee jumping, rafting, zip
lining, and paragliding.  
Many adventure travelers also enjoy skipping the tourist-filled areas and
opting for harder-to-reach locales. Some of the best travel experiences can
take place in the middle of nowhere. However, traveling to a far-flung
destination for adventure can require a bit more prep work than a typical
vacation.

### Before You Go

Adventure activities, both at home and abroad, carry some risk of injury.
Remote locations can pose additional risks:

                                                                                * Limited or no access to medical care
                                                                                * Unreliable communication that can delay emergency response
                                                                                * Unexpected weather changes that can make safety more challenging and rescue efforts more difficult

Here are some healthy travel tips to know before you head off on your
adventure:  

#### Get a healthy start.

                                                                                * Use our website to learn about health and safety concerns at your destination.
                                                                                * Make an appointment and discuss your itinerary with your health care provider to get needed shots and medicines at least a month before you leave. 
                                                                                  * Make sure you're up to date on routine vaccines, such as influenza and measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR). Due to risk of injury, you may also want to consider a tetanus vaccine
                                                                                  * Talk with your doctor or nurse about any planned adventure activities.
                                                                                * Train properly for your trip. Many adventure tours and activities can be physically demanding, so it is important to be in shape before your trip.

#### Prepare for the unexpected

![evacuation helicopter](/travel/images/helicopter.jpg)

                                                                                * Make sure you have health insurance that will cover you in case of emergency. Consider travel health and evacuation insurance to cover any gaps in your coverage.
                                                                                * Leave copies of your itinerary, contact information, credit cards, and passport with someone at home, in case you lose them during travel. Also make sure someone at home knows how to reach you in an emergency, and carry your emergency contacts with you at all times.
                                                                                * Enroll **** with the Smart Traveler Enrollment Program (STEP) to get safety updates and phone numbers you might need in an emergency at your destination.

#### Pack smart.

Prepare a travel health kit with items you may need, especially those that may
be difficult to find on your trip, including:

                                                                                * A first aid kit
                                                                                * Any prescriptions and over-the-counter medicines (enough to last your whole trip, plus a little extra, just in case) 
                                                                                * Insect repellent
                                                                                * Sunscreen (SPF15 or higher)
                                                                                * Alcohol-based hand sanitizer
                                                                                * Water disinfection tablets

Consider additional equipment and supplies may be needed and may not be
available in remote locations.

### During Your Trip

**Take your doctor 's advice. **If your doctor prescribes medicine for you to
prevent malaria, take the medication as directed throughout your trip and
after.

                                                                                * **Be careful whenswimming, boating, or diving**, especially in countries where emergency services may not be quickly available.
                                                                                * Avoid swimming in fresh water like lakes and rivers. Infections such as schistosomiasis and leptospirosis are spread by contact with fresh water. Talk to your doctor if freshwater adventure is in your plans.
                                                                                * **Protect yourself from extreme temperatures,sun exposure, and wet weather**. Adventure travel involves certain risks, such as extreme weather 
                                                                                  * When traveling to extremely hot or cold climates, take steps to prevent temperature-related illnesses and injuries, such as avoiding activities during the hottest part of the day in hotter climates and wearing warm clothing with several loose layers in colder climates.
                                                                                  * Wear sunscreen with SPF 15 or higher. Remember that sun protection isn't just for tropical beaches--you can get a sunburn even if it's cloudy or cold.
                                                                                  * Prevent altitude illness. If you are traveling to a high altitude, avoid altitude illness by ascending gradually. Consider getting medication from your doctor to help with altitude sickness.
                                                                                  * Wear protective gear (such as a helmet or life jacket) when doing adventure activities, and follow your adventure guides' safety instructions.
                                                                                * **Prevent insect bites.** Use insect repellent to protect against diseases spread by mosquitoes, such as Zika, dengue, chikungunya, and malaria. 
                                                                                  * Use EPA-registered insect repellent with one of the following active ingredients: DEET, picaridin, IR3535, oil of lemon eucalyptus/para-menthane-diol, or 2-undecanone.
                                                                                  * Always apply sunscreen first, let it dry, and then apply insect repellent. Be sure to follow instructions on the label, and reapply both as directed.
                                                                                * **Avoid animals,** including pets, local farm animals, and wild animals. In addition to the risk of rabies, all animal bites carry a risk of bacterial infection.
                                                                                * **Always wear seat belts and  **choose safe transportation. In many developing countries, there may be poor road surfaces without shoulders, unprotected curves and cliffs, and no streetlights.
                                                                                * **Be careful whenindulging in the local cuisine. **If you're visiting a developing country:
                                                                                * Eat only food that has been fully cooked and served hot.
                                                                                * Do not eat fresh vegetables or fruits unless you can wash or peel them yourself.
                                                                                * Drink only bottled, sealed beverages, and avoid ice--it was likely made with tap water.
                                                                                * If you are camping, hiking, or staying in a remote area, learn how to disinfect your drinking water before you go.

### After Your Trip

**If you don 't feel well** after your trip, you may need to see a doctor.
Some travel-related illnesses may not cause symptoms until you get home. Tell
your doctor about your travel, including where you went and what you did on
your trip.

### More Information

                                                                                * Pack Smart
                                                                                * Plan Ahead for Illness or Injuries During Your Trip
                                                                                * Avoid Bug Bites
                                                                                * Traveler Survival Guide

* * *

Page last reviewed: January 28, 2019

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                * Destinations
                                                                                * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                  * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                    * FAQ
                                                                                * Travel Notices
                                                                                * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                  * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                    * Clinical Updates
                                                                                    * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                    * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                    * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                    * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                  * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                    * After Travel Tips
                                                                                    * Animal Safety
                                                                                    * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                    * Blood Clots
                                                                                    * Bug Bites
                                                                                    * Business Travel
                                                                                    * Cold Climates
                                                                                    * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                    * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                    * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                    * During Travel Tips
                                                                                    * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                    * Food and Water
                                                                                    * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                      * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                    * High Altitudes
                                                                                    * Holiday Travel
                                                                                    * Hot Climates
                                                                                    * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                    * Insurance
                                                                                    * International Adoption
                                                                                    * Jet Lag
                                                                                    * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                    * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                    * Lunar New Year
                                                                                    * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                    * Medical Tourism
                                                                                    * Mental Health
                                                                                    * Motion Sickness
                                                                                    * Natural Disasters
                                                                                    * Pack Smart
                                                                                    * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                      * Posters
                                                                                      * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                      * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                      * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                      * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                      * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                      * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                      * Road Safety
                                                                                      * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                      * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                      * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                      * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                      * Website Guide
                                                                                      * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                      * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                      * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                      * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                      * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                    * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                    * Road Safety
                                                                                    * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                    * Senior Citizens
                                                                                    * Sex Tourism
                                                                                    * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                    * STDs
                                                                                    * Study Abroad
                                                                                    * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                    * Sun Exposure
                                                                                    * Tick Bites
                                                                                    * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                    * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                    * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                    * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                    * Traveling with Children
                                                                                    * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                    * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                    * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                    * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                    * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                    * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                    * Water Disinfection
                                                                                    * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                    * Mobile Apps
                                                                                    * RSS Feeds
                                                                                  * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                  * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                  * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                  * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                    * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                  * Contents
                                                                                    * Chapter 1
                                                                                      * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                      * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                      *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                  * Tables
                                                                                  * Maps
                                                                                  * Figures
                                                                                  * Boxes
                                                                                  * Updates
                                                                                  * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                    * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                  * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                  * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                  * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                  * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                  * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                  * Audio/Video file
                                                                                  * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                  * RealPlayer file
                                                                                  * Text file
                                                                                  * Zip Archive file
                                                                                  * SAS file
                                                                                  * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                  * Recommend
                                                                                  * Tweet
                                                                                  * Post
                                                                                  * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                  * Listen
                                                                                  * Watch
                                                                                  * eCards
                                                                                  * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

