

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                  * Syndicate

### Pneumococcal Disease ( _Streptococcus pneumoniae_ )

On This Page

                                                                                  * What is pneumococcal disease?
                                                                                  * Who is at risk?
                                                                                  * What can travelers do to prevent pneumococcal disease?
                                                                                  * Traveler Information
                                                                                  * Clinician Information

### What is pneumococcal disease?

Pneumococcal disease is an infection caused by _Streptococcus pneumoniae_
bacteria ("pneumococcus").  These bacteria can cause many types of illnesses,
including: pneumonia (infection of the lungs), ear infections, sinus
infections, meningitis (infection of the covering around the brain and spinal
cord), and bacteremia (blood stream infection). Pneumococcus bacteria are
spread through coughing, sneezing, and close contact with an infected person.

Symptoms of pneumococcal disease depend on the part of the body that is
infected. They can include fever, cough, shortness of breath, chest pain,
stiff neck, confusion and disorientation, sensitivity to light, joint pain,
chills, ear pain, sleeplessness, and irritability.  In severe cases,
pneumococcal disease can cause hearing loss, brain damage, and death.

### Who is at risk?

Pneumococcal disease occurs around the world.  Travelers may be at higher risk
if spending time in crowded settings or in close contact with children in
countries where pneumococcal conjugate vaccine is not routinely used.
Pneumococcal disease is more common in developing countries. Pneumococcal
disease is also more common during winter and early spring but occurs year-
round in the tropics. Outbreaks of pneumococcal disease are uncommon in
countries that have introduced the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine, but may
occur in certain situations, such as in nursing homes, childcare centers, or
other institutions.

Certain people are more likely to become ill with pneumococcal disease. This
high-risk group includes adults 65 years of age or older and children younger
than 2 years of age. People who have conditions that weaken the immune system,
like diabetes, heart disease, lung disease, and HIV/AIDS, or people who smoke
cigarettes or have asthma are also at increased risk for getting pneumococcal
disease.

### What can travelers do to prevent pneumococcal disease?

#### Get a pneumococcal vaccine:

![woman getting vaccination](/travel/images/vaccine-injection.jpg)

                                                                                  * The pneumococcal vaccine can protect you from pneumococcal disease. 
                                                                                    * Adults 65 years and older should get the 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPSV23).
                                                                                    * Younger adults who are smokers or who have certain medical conditions mentioned above should also get PPSV23.
                                                                                    * A dose of PCV13 is also recommended for children 6 through 18 years of age and adults 19 years or older with certain medical conditions.
                                                                                    * Children up through 5 years of age routinely receive 4 doses of a different pneumococcal vaccine (13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine, PCV13). Make sure your child is has received all the recommended doses of PCV13.
                                                                                  * See Vaccine Information Statements (VIS) for more information: 
                                                                                    * PPSV23 VIS
                                                                                    * PCV13 VIS

#### Practice hygiene and cleanliness:

                                                                                  * Wash your hands often.
                                                                                  * If soap and water aren't available, clean hands with hand sanitizer (containing at least 60% alcohol).
                                                                                  * Don't touch your eyes, nose, or mouth. If you need to touch your face, make sure your hands are clean.
                                                                                  * Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or your sleeve (not your hands) when coughing or sneezing.
                                                                                  * Try to avoid close contact, such as kissing, hugging, or sharing eating utensils or cups, with people who are sick.

#### If you feel sick and think you may have pneumococcal disease:

                                                                                  * Talk to your doctor or nurse if you feel seriously ill, especially if you have a fever. 
                                                                                    * Tell them about your travel.
                                                                                    * For more information about medical care abroad, see Getting Health Care Abroad and a list of International Joint Commission-accredited facilities.
                                                                                  * Avoid contact with other people while you are sick.

### Traveler Information

                                                                                  * CDC Pneumococcal Disease Homepage
                                                                                  * Materials for Patients
                                                                                  * Pneumococcal Vaccination
                                                                                    * PPSV23 Vaccine Information Statement
                                                                                    * PCV13 Vaccine Information Statement

### Clinician Information

                                                                                  * Pneumococcal Disease in _CDC Health Information for International Travel_ "Yellow Book"
                                                                                  * Pneumococcal Clinical Information
                                                                                  * Pneumococcal Vaccination
                                                                                  * Pneumococcal References
                                                                                  * Provider Education
                                                                                  * Global Pneumococcal Disease and Vaccination
                                                                                  * Pneumococcal Disease in _CDC Epidemiology and Prevention of Vaccine-Preventable Diseases_ "Pink Book"
                                                                                  * PPSV23 VIS
                                                                                  * PCV13 VIS

* * *

Page last reviewed: August 05, 2014

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                  * Destinations
                                                                                  * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                    * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                      * FAQ
                                                                                  * Travel Notices
                                                                                  * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                    * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                      * Clinical Updates
                                                                                      * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                      * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                      * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                      * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                    * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                      * After Travel Tips
                                                                                      * Animal Safety
                                                                                      * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                      * Blood Clots
                                                                                      * Bug Bites
                                                                                      * Business Travel
                                                                                      * Cold Climates
                                                                                      * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                      * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                      * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                      * During Travel Tips
                                                                                      * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                      * Food and Water
                                                                                      * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                        * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                      * High Altitudes
                                                                                      * Holiday Travel
                                                                                      * Hot Climates
                                                                                      * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                      * Insurance
                                                                                      * International Adoption
                                                                                      * Jet Lag
                                                                                      * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                      * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                      * Lunar New Year
                                                                                      * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                      * Medical Tourism
                                                                                      * Mental Health
                                                                                      * Motion Sickness
                                                                                      * Natural Disasters
                                                                                      * Pack Smart
                                                                                      * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                        * Posters
                                                                                        * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                        * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                        * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                        * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                        * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                        * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                        * Road Safety
                                                                                        * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                        * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                        * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                        * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                        * Website Guide
                                                                                        * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                        * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                        * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                        * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                        * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                      * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                      * Road Safety
                                                                                      * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                      * Senior Citizens
                                                                                      * Sex Tourism
                                                                                      * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                      * STDs
                                                                                      * Study Abroad
                                                                                      * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                      * Sun Exposure
                                                                                      * Tick Bites
                                                                                      * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                      * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                      * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                      * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                      * Traveling with Children
                                                                                      * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                      * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                      * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                      * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                      * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                      * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                      * Water Disinfection
                                                                                      * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                      * Mobile Apps
                                                                                      * RSS Feeds
                                                                                    * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                    * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                  * Disease Directory (41)expand
                                                                                    * Pneumococcal Disease ( _Streptococcus pneumoniae_ )
                                                                                    * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                    * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                      * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                  * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                    * Contents
                                                                                      * Chapter 1
                                                                                        * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                        * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                        *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                    * Tables
                                                                                    * Maps
                                                                                    * Figures
                                                                                    * Boxes
                                                                                    * Updates
                                                                                    * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                      * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                  * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                    * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                    * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                    * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                    * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                    * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                    * Audio/Video file
                                                                                    * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                    * RealPlayer file
                                                                                    * Text file
                                                                                    * Zip Archive file
                                                                                    * SAS file
                                                                                    * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                    * About CDC
                                                                                    * Jobs
                                                                                    * Funding
                                                                                    * Policies
                                                                                    * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                    * Privacy
                                                                                    * FOIA
                                                                                    * No Fear Act
                                                                                    * OIG
                                                                                    * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                    * Youtube
                                                                                    * Instagram
  

                                                                                    * Syndicate
                                                                                    * CDC TV
                                                                                    * RSS
                                                                                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                    * Recommend
                                                                                    * Tweet
                                                                                    * Post
                                                                                    * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                    * Listen
                                                                                    * Watch
                                                                                    * eCards
                                                                                    * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

