

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                            * Facebook
                                                                                            * Twitter
                                                                                            * LinkedIn
                                                                                            * Email
                                                                                            * Syndicate

### Mobile Apps

### TravWell

![TravWell mobile app screenshot](/travel/images/travwell-150.jpg)

CDCâs _TravWell_ app helps you plan for safe and healthy international
travel. Build a trip to get destination-specific vaccine recommendations, a
checklist of what you need to do to prepare for travel, and a customizable
healthy travel packing list. The app also lets you store travel documents,
keep a record of your medications and immunizations, and set reminders to get
vaccine booster doses or take medicines while youâre traveling.

**Key Features**

                                                                                            * Authoritative recommendations from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
                                                                                            * During-travel features available offline (no data connection needed)
                                                                                            * Fully customizable to do list and packing list
                                                                                            * Emergency services phone numbers for every destination
                                                                                            * Easy to use and fun

![Available from Google Play](https://www.cdc.gov/mobile/images/google-
store-122px.png)   ![Available from the App
Store](https://www.cdc.gov/mobile/images/app-store-122px.png)

To give feedback about this app, contact CDC-INFO.

### Can I Eat This?

![App - Can I Eat This ](/travel/images/app-can-i-eat-this-150.jpg)

Montezumaâs revenge, Delhi belly, or travelersâ diarrheaâwhatever you
call it, it can ruin your international trip. Help prevent travelersâ
diarrhea by using CDCâs _Can I Eat This?_ app. Select the country youâre
in and answer a few simple questions about what youâre thinking about eating
or drinking, and _Can I Eat This?_ will tell you whether itâs likely to be
safe. With _Can I Eat This?_ , you can be more confident that your food and
drink choices wonât make you spend your international trip in the bathroom.

**Key Features**

                                                                                            * Authoritative recommendations from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
                                                                                            * Access recommendations offline (no data connection needed)
                                                                                            * Easy to use and fun

![Available from Google Play](https://www.cdc.gov/mobile/images/google-
store-122px.png)   ![Available from the App
Store](https://www.cdc.gov/mobile/images/app-store-122px.png)

To give feedback about this app, contact CDC-INFO.



* * *

Page last reviewed: September 10, 2019

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                            * Destinations
                                                                                            * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                              * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                * FAQ
                                                                                            * Travel Notices
                                                                                            * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                              * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                              * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                * Animal Safety
                                                                                                * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                * Blood Clots
                                                                                                * Bug Bites
                                                                                                * Business Travel
                                                                                                * Cold Climates
                                                                                                * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                * Food and Water
                                                                                                * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                  * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                * High Altitudes
                                                                                                * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                * Hot Climates
                                                                                                * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                * Insurance
                                                                                                * International Adoption
                                                                                                * Jet Lag
                                                                                                * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                * Mental Health
                                                                                                * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                * Pack Smart
                                                                                                * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                  * Posters
                                                                                                  * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                  * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                  * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                  * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                  * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                  * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                  * Road Safety
                                                                                                  * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                  * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                  * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                  * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                  * Website Guide
                                                                                                  * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                  * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                  * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                  * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                  * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                * Road Safety
                                                                                                * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                * STDs
                                                                                                * Study Abroad
                                                                                                * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                * Tick Bites
                                                                                                * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                * RSS Feeds
                                                                                              * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                              * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                            * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                              * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                              * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                            * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                              * Contents
                                                                                                * Chapter 1
                                                                                                  * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                  * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                  *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                              * Tables
                                                                                              * Maps
                                                                                              * Figures
                                                                                              * Boxes
                                                                                              * Updates
                                                                                              * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                            * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                              * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                              * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                              * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                              * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                              * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                              * Audio/Video file
                                                                                              * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                              * RealPlayer file
                                                                                              * Text file
                                                                                              * Zip Archive file
                                                                                              * SAS file
                                                                                              * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                              * Recommend
                                                                                              * Tweet
                                                                                              * Post
                                                                                              * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                              * Listen
                                                                                              * Watch
                                                                                              * eCards
                                                                                              * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

