

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                            * Facebook
                                                                                                            * Twitter
                                                                                                            * LinkedIn
                                                                                                            * Email
                                                                                                            * Syndicate

### Traveling with a Disability

![traveler with service dog](/travel/images/service-dog-traveler.jpg)

If you have a disability and are considering international travel, a little
advance planning--including a pre-travel visit with a healthcare provider--can
enable you to see the world and return home safe and healthy.

### Before You Go

                                                                                                            * **See your doctor or a travel medicine specialist at least a month before you leave**. Your healthcare provider can review your medical history, travel plans, and personal circumstances. They can make recommendations about what vaccinations and medications you will need for your trip. And they can share advice for things you can do to keep healthy during travel, including how to prevent diseases spread by insects, sex, food, or water.
                                                                                                            * **Each country has its own guidelines about which medicines are legal.** Check with the US embassy, consulate, or diplomatic mission at your destination to learn if the medicines you plan to bring with you are permitted in that country. Even with a prescription from your doctor, they may be prohibited.
                                                                                                            * **Bring enough medicine to cover the time you will be away.** For short trips, do not plan to buy medicine refills overseas. If you are traveling for several weeks or more and will require refills, work with your doctor on a plan to get refills. In general, medicines cannot be shipped overseas, and foreign pharmacies will not accept prescriptions written by doctors from other countries. Additionally, be aware that counterfeit medicines are sold in some countries.
                                                                                                            * **Consider how you will pay for health care**. If you go to a hospital or clinic overseas, be prepared to pay out of pocket (in cash) for any services you receive. Even if you are healthy, think about buying travel health insurance. If you are traveling to a remote destination or to a place where care is not likely to be up to US standards, consider buying medical evacuation insurance. This insurance will help you pay for emergency transportation from a remote or poor area to a high-quality hospital--which could otherwise cost more than $100,000. Make sure that the policy provides a 24-hour physician support center.
                                                                                                            * **Pack smart**. In your carry-on luggage, pack a travel health kit that includes insect repellent, sunscreen, over-the-counter and prescription medicines (enough for your stay, plus a few days' extra, just in case), a first aid kit, and any other health necessities you think you'll need. Items you buy overseas may not be similar in quality to what you are used to.

![wheelchair in park, people in background
playing](/travel/images/wheelchair.jpg)

#### Considerations for Air Travel

US airlines and flights to or from the United States on a foreign carrier must
provide all travelers with the same travel opportunities, regardless of
disability, unless doing so would endanger the health or safety of other
passengers and crew. Airlines must provide access to the aircraft, an aisle
seat, and a seat with a removable armrest. Aircraft with more than 60 seats
are required to have a wheelchair on board. Wide-body airplanes with two or
more aisles must have wheelchair-accessible bathrooms. Airplanes with fewer
than 30 seats are generally exempt from these regulations.

If you have a documented trained service animal, the airline must allow it to
accompany you, but it may not always be allowed with you in the cabin. Be sure
to check with your airline to ensure that your service animal meets the
airline's requirements, including the type of documentation needed.

If you plan to fly within a foreign country or between countries while abroad,
the regulations above might not apply. Check with the airline to find out what
accommodations it makes for people with disabilities.

The US Department of Transportation has a toll-free hotline, 800-778-4838
(voice) or 800-455-9880 (TTY), for more information about the rights of air
travelers with disabilities. Also check federal relay 711 or the
Transportation Security Administration's website for answers to questions
about screening policies, procedures, and checkpoints. Find out if there are
specific policies for devices such as wheelchairs, portable machines,
batteries, respirators, and oxygen.

#### Considerations for Cruise Ship Travel

Cruise ships also have obligations to travelers with disabilities but check
with the cruise line before booking to make sure any items you'll need, such
as medical oxygen or a wheelchair, will be available. Some cruises cater to
travelers with special needs, such as patients on dialysis.

#### Considerations at Your Destination

Service animals may not be allowed to enter all countries. Where they are
allowed, they are subject to the country's animal importation regulations,
such as quarantine regulations. Please check with the country of destination
about its requirements. Your service animal is also subject to US animal
import regulations on return. Plan ahead for what documents and testing may be
required to enter another country and return to the United States with your
service animal.

                                                                                                            * Contact the US embassy or consulate of the destination country for information on possible restrictions and cultural norms about service animals and find out about any quarantine, vaccination, and documentation requirements.
                                                                                                            * Consult veterinarians about tips for traveling with service animals.
                                                                                                            * Contact destination hotels to make sure they will allow service animals.

You may need to research the availability of wheelchairs and medical
equipment. Consider renting a wheelchair and medical equipment at your
destination and consider the use of manual versus power wheelchairs. The
destination country's voltage, type of electrical plug, and electrical
infrastructure reliability may influence your decision. Websites such as
Mobility International USA and the European Network for Accessible Tourism
link to overseas medical equipment providers.

### More Information

                                                                                                            * Yellow Book Travelers with Disabilities
                                                                                                            * Society for Accessible Travel and Hospitality
                                                                                                            * Mobility International USA
                                                                                                            * Traveling with a Disability--Aviation Consumer Protection (US Department of Transportation)
                                                                                                            * Travelers with Disabilities and Medical Conditions (Transportation Security Administration)
                                                                                                            * International Association for Medical Assistance for Travellers (IAMAT)
                                                                                                            * European Network for Accessible Tourism



* * *

Page last reviewed: January 06, 2020

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                            * Destinations
                                                                                                            * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                              * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                * FAQ
                                                                                                            * Travel Notices
                                                                                                            * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                              * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                              * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                * Business Travel
                                                                                                                * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                * Food and Water
                                                                                                                * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                  * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                * Insurance
                                                                                                                * International Adoption
                                                                                                                * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                * Mental Health
                                                                                                                * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                  * Posters
                                                                                                                  * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                  * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                  * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                  * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                  * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                  * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                  * Road Safety
                                                                                                                  * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                  * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                  * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                  * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                  * Website Guide
                                                                                                                  * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                  * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                  * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                  * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                  * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                * Road Safety
                                                                                                                * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                * STDs
                                                                                                                * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                              * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                              * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                            * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                              * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                              * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                            * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                              * Contents
                                                                                                                * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                  * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                  * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                  *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                              * Tables
                                                                                                              * Maps
                                                                                                              * Figures
                                                                                                              * Boxes
                                                                                                              * Updates
                                                                                                              * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                            * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                              * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                              * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                              * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                              * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                              * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                              * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                              * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                              * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                              * Text file
                                                                                                              * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                              * SAS file
                                                                                                              * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                              * Recommend
                                                                                                              * Tweet
                                                                                                              * Post
                                                                                                              * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                              * Listen
                                                                                                              * Watch
                                                                                                              * eCards
                                                                                                              * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

