

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                            * Facebook
                                                                                                                            * Twitter
                                                                                                                            * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                            * Email
                                                                                                                            * Syndicate

### Food and Water Safety

Contaminated food or drinks can cause travelers' diarrhea and other diseases.
Travelers to developing countries are especially at risk. Reduce your risk by
sticking to safe eating and drinking habits.

### Food

#### Usually Safe

**_Hot food_**

![dim sum](/travel/images/dim-sum.png)

High heat kills the germs that cause travelers' diarrhea, so food that is
cooked thoroughly is usually safe as long as it is served steaming hot. Be
careful of food that is cooked and allowed to sit at warm or room
temperatures, such as on a buffet. It could become contaminated again.

**_Dry or packaged food_**

Most germs require moisture to grow, so food that is dry, such as bread or
potato chips, is usually safe. Additionally, food from factory-sealed
containers, such as canned tuna or packaged crackers, is safe as long as it
was not opened and handled by another person.

#### Can Be Risky

**_Raw food_**

![steak](/travel/images/steak-no.png)

Raw food should generally be avoided. Raw fruits or vegetables may be safe if
you can peel them yourself or wash them in safe (bottled or disinfected)
water. Steer clear of platters of cut-up fruit or vegetables. (Did you see the
hands that cut them? Can you be sure those hands were clean?) Salads are
especially problematic because shredded or finely cut vegetables offer a lot
of surface area for germs to grow on. Also avoid fresh salsas or other
condiments made from raw fruits or vegetables. Raw meat or seafood may contain
germs; this includes raw meat that is "cooked" with citrus juice, vinegar, or
other acidic liquid (such as ceviche, a dish of raw seafood marinated in
citrus juice).

**_Street food_**

Street vendors in developing countries may not be held to the same hygiene
standards as restaurants (which may be low to begin with), so eat food from
street vendors with caution. If you choose to eat street food, apply the same
rules as to other food; for example, if you watch something come straight off
the grill (cooked and steaming hot), it's more likely to be safe.

**_Bushmeat_**

Bushmeat refers to local wild game, generally animals not typically eaten in
the United States, such as bats, monkeys, or rodents. Bushmeat can be a source
of animal-origin diseases, such as Ebola or SARS, and is best avoided.

### **Drinks**

#### Usually Safe

**_Bottled or canned drinks_**

Drinks from factory-sealed bottles or cans are safe; however, dishonest
vendors in some countries may sell tap water in bottles that are "sealed" with
a drop of glue to mimic the factory seal. Carbonated drinks, such as sodas or
sparkling water, are safest since the bubbles indicate that the bottle was
sealed at the factory. If drinking directly from a can, wipe off the lip of
the can before your mouth comes into contact with it.

**_Hot drinks_**

![coffee cup](/travel/images/coffee-cup.png)

Hot coffee or tea should be safe if it is served steaming hot. It's okay to
let it cool before you drink it, but be wary of coffee or tea that is served
only warm or at room temperature. Be careful about adding things that may be
contaminated (cream, lemon) to your hot drinks (sugar should be fine; see "Dry
food" above).

**_Milk_**

Pasteurized milk from a sealed bottle should be okay, but watch out for milk
in open containers (such as pitchers) that may have been sitting at room
temperature. This includes the cream you put in your coffee or tea. People who
are pregnant or have weakened immune systems should stay away from
unpasteurized milk or other dairy products (cheese, yogurt).

**_Alcohol_**

The alcohol content of most liquors is sufficient to kill germs; however,
stick to the guidelines above when choosing mixers and avoid drinks "on the
rocks" (see "Ice" below). The alcohol content of beer and wine is probably not
high enough to kill germs, but if it came from a sealed bottle or can, it
should be okay.

#### Can Be Risky

**_Tap water_**

![water bottle](/travel/images/water-bottle.png)

In most developing countries, tap water should probably not be drunk, even in
cities. This includes swallowing water when showering or brushing your teeth.
In some areas, it may be advisable to brush your teeth with bottled water. Tap
water can be disinfected by boiling, filtering, or chemically treating it, for
example with bleach or another chlorine product.

**_Fountain drinks_**

Sodas from a fountain are made by carbonating water and mixing it with
flavored syrup. Since the water most likely came from the tap, these sodas are
best avoided. Similarly, juice from a fountain is most likely juice
concentrate mixed with tap water and should be avoided.

**_Ice_**

Avoid ice in developing countries; it was likely made with tap water.

**_Freshly squeezed juice_**

If you washed the fruit in safe water and squeezed the juice yourself, drink
up. Juice that was squeezed by unknown hands may be risky. The same goes for
ice pops and other treats that are made from freshly squeezed juice.



Eat

                                                                                                                            * Food that is cooked and served hot
                                                                                                                            * Food from sealed packages
                                                                                                                            * Hard-cooked eggs
                                                                                                                            * Fruits and vegetables you have washed in safe water or peeled yourself
                                                                                                                            * Pasteurized dairy products

Don't Eat

                                                                                                                            * Food served at room temperature
                                                                                                                            * Food from street vendors
                                                                                                                            * Raw or soft-cooked (runny) eggs
                                                                                                                            * Raw or undercooked (rare) meat or fish
                                                                                                                            * Unwashed or unpeeled raw fruits and vegetables
                                                                                                                            * Condiments (such as salsa) made with fresh ingredients
                                                                                                                            * Salads
                                                                                                                            * Flavored ice or popsicles
                                                                                                                            * Unpasteurized dairy products
                                                                                                                            * Bushmeat (monkeys, bats, or other wild game)

Drink

                                                                                                                            * Water, sodas, or sports drinks that are bottled and sealed (carbonated is safer)
                                                                                                                            * Water that has been disinfected (boiled, filtered, treated)
                                                                                                                            * Ice made with bottled or disinfected water
                                                                                                                            * Hot coffee or tea
                                                                                                                            * Pasteurized milk

Don't Drink

                                                                                                                            * Tap or well water
                                                                                                                            * Fountain drinks
                                                                                                                            * Ice made with tap or well water
                                                                                                                            * Drinks made with tap or well water (such as reconstituted juice)
                                                                                                                            * Unpasteurized milk



* * *

Page last reviewed: February 20, 2020

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                            * Destinations
                                                                                                                            * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                              * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                * FAQ
                                                                                                                            * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                            * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                              * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                              * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                  * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                * Insurance
                                                                                                                                * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                  * Posters
                                                                                                                                  * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                  * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                  * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                  * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                  * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                  * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                  * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                  * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                  * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                  * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                * STDs
                                                                                                                                * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                              * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                              * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                            * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                              * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                              * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                            * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                              * Contents
                                                                                                                                * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                  * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                  * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                  *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                              * Tables
                                                                                                                              * Maps
                                                                                                                              * Figures
                                                                                                                              * Boxes
                                                                                                                              * Updates
                                                                                                                              * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                            * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                              * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                              * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                              * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                              * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                              * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                              * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                              * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                              * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                              * Text file
                                                                                                                              * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                              * SAS file
                                                                                                                              * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                              * Recommend
                                                                                                                              * Tweet
                                                                                                                              * Post
                                                                                                                              * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                              * Listen
                                                                                                                              * Watch
                                                                                                                              * eCards
                                                                                                                              * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

