

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                * Facebook
                                                                                                                                * Twitter
                                                                                                                                * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                * Email
                                                                                                                                * Syndicate

### Ebola

On This Page

                                                                                                                                * What is Ebola and how does it spread?
                                                                                                                                * Who is at risk?
                                                                                                                                * What can travelers do to prevent Ebola?
                                                                                                                                * Traveler Information
                                                                                                                                * Clinician Information

### What is Ebola and how does it spread?

Ebola is a rare and deadly disease spread by direct contact with blood or body
fluids of a person infected with Ebola virus. It is also spread by contact
with a contaminated object or infected animal.

The Ebola virus can remain in certain body fluids of people who have recovered
from Ebola. These body fluids include semen, fluids in the eye, and fluids
found around the brain and spine.  It is possible for Ebola to spread through
sex or other contact with the semen of a man who has recovered from Ebola.  

### Who is at risk?

For most travelers, there is a very low risk for Ebola. Travelers who have
close contact with nonhuman primates (such as monkeys, chimpanzees, and
gorillas) or bats in tropical Africa are at risk. People who care for people
sick with Ebola are also at risk. There have been confirmed cases in African
countries such as Republic of the Congo, Ivory Coast, Democratic Republic of
the Congo, Gabon, South Sudan, Uganda, Guinea, Liberia, Sierra Leone, and
Nigeria.

### What can travelers do to prevent Ebola?

![Ebola virus](/travel/images/ebola-virus.jpg)

Although there is no approved or widely available vaccine for Ebola, travelers
should take these steps to prevent infection:

                                                                                                                                * **Avoid contact with sick people, dead bodies, blood, or body fluids**
                                                                                                                                  * Don't handle items that may have come in contact with a sick person's blood or body fluids.
                                                                                                                                * **Avoid contact with animals**
                                                                                                                                  * Avoid contact with monkeys, chimpanzees, gorillas, and bats.
                                                                                                                                  * Don't eat or handle raw or undercooked meat or any bushmeat (wild animals hunted for food).
                                                                                                                                * **Practice good hygiene**
                                                                                                                                  * Wash your hands often. If soap and water aren't available, clean your hands with hand sanitizer (containing at least 60% alcohol).
                                                                                                                                  * Don't touch your eyes, nose, or mouth. If you must, make sure your hands are clean first.
                                                                                                                                * **Healthcare workers who may be exposed to people infected with Ebola virus should follow these steps:**
                                                                                                                                  * Avoid contact with infected patients without the use of recommended protective equipment.
                                                                                                                                  * Always wear protective equipment, including masks, gloves, gowns, and goggles.
                                                                                                                                  * Practice proper infection control and sterilization measures. For more information, see "Infection Control for Viral Hemorrhagic Fevers in the African Health Care Setting."
                                                                                                                                  * Isolate patients with Ebola from unprotected persons.
                                                                                                                                * **If symptoms consistent with Ebola develop:**
                                                                                                                                  * Talk to a doctor immediately. Tell the doctor about your recent travel and your symptoms before you go to his or her office or emergency room.
                                                                                                                                  * For more information about medical care abroad, see Get Care Abroad _._
                                                                                                                                  * If you are sick, try to stay away from others. Stay home or in your hotel room unless you need medical care.

![Ebola lab](/travel/images/ebola-lab.jpg)

### Traveler Information

                                                                                                                                * CDC Ebola website
                                                                                                                                * Ebola Questions & Answers
                                                                                                                                * US Department of State Smart Traveler Enrollment Program (STEP)                  

### Clinician Information

                                                                                                                                * Viral Hemorrhagic Fevers in _CDC Health Information for International Travel_ , the "Yellow Book"
                                                                                                                                *  International Infection Control for Healthcare Workers
                                                                                                                                *  Guidance for Managing Patients in US Healthcare Settings

* * *

Page last reviewed: June 04, 2018

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                * Destinations
                                                                                                                                * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                  * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                    * FAQ
                                                                                                                                * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                  * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                    * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                    * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                    * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                    * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                    * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                  * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                    * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                    * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                    * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                    * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                    * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                    * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                    * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                    * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                    * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                    * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                    * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                    * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                    * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                    * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                      * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                    * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                    * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                    * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                    * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                    * Insurance
                                                                                                                                    * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                    * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                    * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                    * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                    * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                    * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                    * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                    * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                    * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                    * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                    * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                    * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                      * Posters
                                                                                                                                      * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                      * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                      * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                      * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                      * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                      * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                      * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                      * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                      * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                      * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                      * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                      * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                      * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                      * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                      * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                      * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                      * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                    * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                    * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                    * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                    * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                    * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                    * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                    * STDs
                                                                                                                                    * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                    * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                    * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                    * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                    * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                    * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                    * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                    * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                    * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                    * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                    * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                    * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                    * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                    * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                    * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                    * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                    * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                    * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                    * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                  * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                  * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                * Disease Directory (41)expand
                                                                                                                                  * Ebola
                                                                                                                                  * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                  * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                    * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                  * Contents
                                                                                                                                    * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                      * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                      * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                      *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                  * Tables
                                                                                                                                  * Maps
                                                                                                                                  * Figures
                                                                                                                                  * Boxes
                                                                                                                                  * Updates
                                                                                                                                  * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                    * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                  * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                  * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                  * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                  * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                  * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                  * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                  * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                  * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                  * Text file
                                                                                                                                  * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                  * SAS file
                                                                                                                                  * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                  * Recommend
                                                                                                                                  * Tweet
                                                                                                                                  * Post
                                                                                                                                  * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                  * Listen
                                                                                                                                  * Watch
                                                                                                                                  * eCards
                                                                                                                                  * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

