

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

### Humanitarian Aid Workers

![ruins of a town after a disaster](/travel/images/ruins.jpg)

If you are traveling overseas to provide aid--such as disaster relief or
missionary work--you may face more health risks than regular tourists. You may
be more exposed to the local population and have less-secure lodgings. If you
are traveling in the aftermath of a natural disaster, you may have to contend
with floodwater, debris, or other hazards. However, since you are an aid
worker, it is especially critical to protect your health. If you become sick
or injured, not only will you be unable to provide aid, you will also add to
the burden of the local health care system. With careful preparation, however,
you can minimize the risks to your health.

### Pre-Travel Care

As soon as possible, schedule a visit with a travel medicine specialist, who
can provide vaccines, medicines, and advice on how to stay safe and healthy
while you are traveling. You should also plan a visit with your regular doctor
to make sure you're physically fit for the demands of the work. If you'll be
gone for a long time, a dental check-up before you leave is a good idea as
well.

Aid work can be demanding, and medical facilities in disaster areas are often
strained or nonexistent. Therefore, if you have a serious chronic illness,
such as heart disease or diabetes, or are pregnant, consider whether there are
other ways for you to support the cause.

### Avoiding Injury in a Disaster Area

Injuries and motor vehicle accidents are common risks anywhere in the world,
so select safe transportation and always wear a seatbelt. Be sensitive to
possible physical dangers, such as debris, unstable buildings, and downed
power lines. In a conflict area, be aware of landmines or other explosive
hazards.

### What to Pack

Humanitarian aid workers often need to pack more than other travelers,
especially if they are going to be in an area where supplies are limited and
the water supply is compromised. In addition to your travel health kit,
consider whether you might need any of the following:

                                                                                                                                  * First-aid supplies
                                                                                                                                  * Water filter or purification tablets
                                                                                                                                  * Nonperishable food
                                                                                                                                  * Gloves (rubber or leather)
                                                                                                                                  * Bed net (in areas with malaria)
                                                                                                                                  * Extra pair of prescription glasses
                                                                                                                                  * Toilet paper
                                                                                                                                  * Sewing kit
                                                                                                                                  * Laundry detergent
                                                                                                                                  * Flashlight and spare batteries
                                                                                                                                  * Candles and matches or lighter
                                                                                                                                  * Zip-top bags
                                                                                                                                  * Safety goggles

Humanitarian aid work is stressful, and taking along a personal item, such as
a family photo, can be comforting. You should also bring photocopies of
important documents, such as your passport and medical license.

![hospital ship](/travel/images/hospital-ship.jpg)

### When You Return

Seek medical care if you were injured during your trip or become ill after
returning. Make sure your doctor knows that you recently returned from doing
humanitarian aid work overseas. More than 30% of aid workers report depression
after returning home, so take time to rest and readjust. If you continue to
feel depressed, you may wish to seek counseling.

* * *

Page last reviewed: August 17, 2015

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                  * Destinations
                                                                                                                                  * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                    * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                      * FAQ
                                                                                                                                  * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                  * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                    * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                      * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                      * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                      * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                      * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                      * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                    * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                      * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                      * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                      * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                      * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                      * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                      * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                      * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                      * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                      * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                      * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                      * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                      * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                      * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                      * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                        * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                      * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                      * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                      * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                      * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                      * Insurance
                                                                                                                                      * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                      * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                      * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                      * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                      * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                      * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                      * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                      * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                      * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                      * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                      * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                      * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                        * Posters
                                                                                                                                        * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                        * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                        * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                        * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                        * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                        * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                        * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                        * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                        * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                        * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                        * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                        * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                        * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                        * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                        * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                        * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                        * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                      * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                      * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                      * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                      * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                      * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                      * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                      * STDs
                                                                                                                                      * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                      * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                      * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                      * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                      * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                      * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                      * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                      * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                      * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                      * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                      * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                      * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                      * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                      * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                      * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                      * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                      * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                      * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                      * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                    * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                    * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                  * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                    * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                    * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                      * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                  * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                    * Contents
                                                                                                                                      * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                        * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                        * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                        *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                    * Tables
                                                                                                                                    * Maps
                                                                                                                                    * Figures
                                                                                                                                    * Boxes
                                                                                                                                    * Updates
                                                                                                                                    * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                      * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                  * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                    * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                    * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                    * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                    * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                    * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                    * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                    * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                    * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                    * Text file
                                                                                                                                    * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                    * SAS file
                                                                                                                                    * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                    * About CDC
                                                                                                                                    * Jobs
                                                                                                                                    * Funding
                                                                                                                                    * Policies
                                                                                                                                    * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                    * Privacy
                                                                                                                                    * FOIA
                                                                                                                                    * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                    * OIG
                                                                                                                                    * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                    * Youtube
                                                                                                                                    * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                    * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                    * RSS
                                                                                                                                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                                                                    * Recommend
                                                                                                                                    * Tweet
                                                                                                                                    * Post
                                                                                                                                    * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                    * Listen
                                                                                                                                    * Watch
                                                                                                                                    * eCards
                                                                                                                                    * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

