

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

### Pertussis (Whooping Cough)

On This Page

                                                                                                                                        * What is pertussis?
                                                                                                                                        * Who is at risk?
                                                                                                                                        * What can travelers do to prevent pertussis?
                                                                                                                                        * Traveler Information
                                                                                                                                        * Clinician Information

### What is pertussis?

Pertussis, also known as "whooping cough," is a contagious disease spread when
infected people cough and sneeze near others.

Early symptoms are similar to a cold and include runny nose, low fevers, mild
cough, and a pause in breathing for babies. Later symptoms of the disease
include "fits" of many rapid coughs followed by a high-pitched "whoop,"
vomiting, and exhaustion. Pertussis is very serious for babies. Among babies
younger than 1 year of age who get pertussis, more than half will be
hospitalized and 1 in 100 will die.

### Who is at risk?

Pertussis is seen in all countries, so all travelers are at risk. Pertussis
rates are the highest in developing countries where very few people have had
the vaccine. Babies who are too young to have had their first 3 pertussis
shots are most at risk. Adults, even those who received pertussis vaccines as
children, should be revaccinated with a one-time dose of Tdap vaccine. It is
estimated that 30-50 million people get pertussis and 300,000 people die from
pertussis every year worldwide.

### What can travelers do to prevent pertussis?

#### Get a pertussis vaccine:

![woman getting vaccination](/travel/images/vaccine-injection.jpg)

                                                                                                                                        * Adults 19 or older should receive a single dose of Tdap vaccine. **Confirm with your doctor that you have received the vaccine for pertussis.**
                                                                                                                                        * In the United States, pertussis vaccine is only available in combination with other vaccines that protect you against diseases such as diphtheria and tetanus. They are DTaP and Tdap.
                                                                                                                                        * DTaP vaccine is given to children younger than 7 years of age. 
                                                                                                                                          * Children should get 5 doses of DTaP, one dose at each of the following ages: 2 months, 4 months, 6 months, and 15-18 months and 4-6 years.
                                                                                                                                        * Tdap vaccine is given to adolescents and adults. 
                                                                                                                                          * Adolescents 11-18 years of age should receive a booster dose, preferably at 11-12 years of age.
                                                                                                                                          * Adults 19 years of age and older should receive a _one-time_ booster dose. 
                                                                                                                                            * **Note:** Do not confuse this with the Td (tetanus/diphtheria) vaccine which you should receive every 10 years or after an exposure to tetanus.
                                                                                                                                            * Pregnant women should get a dose of Tdap during _each_ pregnancy, preferably at 27 through 36 weeks gestation.
                                                                                                                                          * For children 7-10 years of age who are not fully immunized against pertussis, a single dose of Tdap should be given.
                                                                                                                                        * See Vaccine Information Statements (VIS) for more information. 
                                                                                                                                          * DTaP VIS
                                                                                                                                          * Tdap VIS

#### Practice hygiene and cleanliness:

                                                                                                                                        * Wash your hands often.
                                                                                                                                        * If soap and water aren't available, clean hands with hand sanitizer (containing at least 60% alcohol).
                                                                                                                                        * Don't touch your eyes, nose, or mouth. If you need to touch your face, make sure your hands are clean.
                                                                                                                                        * Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or your sleeve (not your hands) when coughing or sneezing.
                                                                                                                                        * Avoid close contact, such as kissing, hugging, or sharing eating utensils or cups, with people who are sick.

#### If you feel sick and think you may have pertussis:

                                                                                                                                        * Talk to your doctor or nurse if you feel seriously ill, especially if you have a fever. 
                                                                                                                                          * Tell them about your travel.
                                                                                                                                          * For more information about medical care abroad, see Getting Health Care Abroad and a list of International Joint Commission-accredited facilities.
                                                                                                                                        * Avoid contact with other people while you are sick.

### Traveler Information

                                                                                                                                        * CDC Pertussis Homepage
                                                                                                                                        * Pertussis Vaccination
                                                                                                                                        * Pertussis FAQs
                                                                                                                                        * Pertussis in Other Countries

### Clinician Information

                                                                                                                                        * Pertussis in _CDC Health Information for International Travel -_ "Yellow Book"
                                                                                                                                        * Pertussis Diagnosis and Treatment
                                                                                                                                        * CDC Pertussis Homepage
                                                                                                                                        * Pertussis: Standard Notifiable Disease
                                                                                                                                        * Pertussis in _CDC Epidemiology and Prevention of Vaccine-Preventable Diseases_ -"Pink Book"
                                                                                                                                        * DTaP VIS
                                                                                                                                        * Tdap VIS

* * *

Page last reviewed: March 10, 2013

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                        * Destinations
                                                                                                                                        * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                          * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                            * FAQ
                                                                                                                                        * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                        * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                          * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                            * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                            * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                            * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                            * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                            * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                          * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                            * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                            * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                            * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                            * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                            * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                            * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                            * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                            * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                            * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                            * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                            * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                            * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                            * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                            * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                              * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                            * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                            * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                            * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                            * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                            * Insurance
                                                                                                                                            * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                            * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                            * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                            * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                            * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                            * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                            * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                            * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                            * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                            * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                            * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                            * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                              * Posters
                                                                                                                                              * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                              * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                              * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                              * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                              * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                              * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                              * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                              * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                              * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                              * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                              * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                              * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                              * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                              * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                              * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                              * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                              * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                            * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                            * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                            * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                            * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                            * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                            * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                            * STDs
                                                                                                                                            * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                            * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                            * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                            * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                            * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                            * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                            * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                            * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                            * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                            * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                            * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                            * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                            * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                            * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                            * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                            * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                            * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                            * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                            * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                          * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                          * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                        * Disease Directory (41)expand
                                                                                                                                          * Pertussis (Whooping Cough)
                                                                                                                                          * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                          * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                            * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                        * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                          * Contents
                                                                                                                                            * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                              * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                              * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                              *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                          * Tables
                                                                                                                                          * Maps
                                                                                                                                          * Figures
                                                                                                                                          * Boxes
                                                                                                                                          * Updates
                                                                                                                                          * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                            * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                          * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                          * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                          * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                          * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                          * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                          * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                          * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                          * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                          * Text file
                                                                                                                                          * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                          * SAS file
                                                                                                                                          * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                          * About CDC
                                                                                                                                          * Jobs
                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                          * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                          * Privacy
                                                                                                                                          * FOIA
                                                                                                                                          * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                          * OIG
                                                                                                                                          * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                          * Youtube
                                                                                                                                          * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                          * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                          * RSS
                                                                                                                                          * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                          * Recommend
                                                                                                                                          * Tweet
                                                                                                                                          * Post
                                                                                                                                          * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                          * Listen
                                                                                                                                          * Watch
                                                                                                                                          * eCards
                                                                                                                                          * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                          * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                          * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                          * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                          * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

