

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

### Flu (Influenza)

On This Page

                                                                                                                                              * Influenza Prevention: Information for Travelers
                                                                                                                                              * More Information for Travelers
                                                                                                                                              * Travel Preparation
                                                                                                                                              * Tips for After Your Trip

#### The risk for exposure to influenza during travel depends somewhat on the
time of year and destination.

                                                                                                                                              * In the Northern Hemisphere, the flu season can begin as early as October and can last as late as April or May.
                                                                                                                                              * In the temperate regions of the Southern Hemisphere, influenza activity typically occurs during April - September.
                                                                                                                                              * In the tropics, influenza activity occurs throughout the year.
                                                                                                                                              * Travelers in the Northern and Southern Hemispheres can be exposed to influenza during months that fall outside of those listed above, especially when traveling as part of large tourist groups (e.g., on cruise ships) that include people from areas of the world where influenza viruses are circulating.

### Influenza Prevention:  
Information for Travelers

![a family with their child ready to board a
plane](https://www.cdc.gov/flu/images/information-for-travelers.jpg)

Get more information on influenza for travelers from CDC's publication _Health
Information for International Travel_ (commonly called the Yellow Book).

More

#### CDC recommends that everyone 6 months and older get a flu vaccine yearly.

                                                                                                                                              * Everyone 6 months and older should get a flu vaccine yearly, preferably in the fall before the U.S. flu season begins.

#### People who have not gotten a flu vaccine for the current season and are
traveling to parts of the world where influenza activity is ongoing should get
a flu vaccine to protect themselves during their trip.

                                                                                                                                              * This is particularly important for people at high risk of flu-related complications.
                                                                                                                                              * The flu vaccine used in the Northern Hemisphere usually protects against the main viruses that have been circulating in other parts of the world.

#### People should get vaccinated at least 2 weeks before travel because it
takes 2 weeks for vaccine immunity to develop after vaccination.

                                                                                                                                              * No information is available about the benefits of getting revaccinated before summer travel for those people who already were vaccinated during the preceding fall, so revaccination is not recommended.
                                                                                                                                              * Keep in mind that influenza vaccine manufactured for the upcoming or current season usually expires the following June. After June, flu vaccines are usually not available in the U.S. until the influenza vaccine for the next season is produced and made available in the fall.
                                                                                                                                              * Also, even if you receive the previous season's vaccine before travel during the summer months, you should still receive the new flu vaccine that coming fall or winter.

### More Information for Travelers

                                                                                                                                              * **If you are sick with symptoms of influenza-like illness, you should not travel**. These symptoms include fever, cough, sore throat, runny or stuffy nose, muscle or body aches, headache, and fatigue. Some people may have vomiting and diarrhea, though this is more common in children than adults. It's important to note that not everyone with flu will have a fever.
                                                                                                                                              * **If you are sick, stay home until at least 24 hours after you no longer have a fever*** **or signs of a fever without the use of a fever-reducing medicine, such as Tylenol ®**.

### Travel Preparation

                                                                                                                                              * **Investigate current flu activity in your region of travel**. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention provide frequently updated information on seasonal flu activity throughout the world.
                                                                                                                                              * **Additional Travel Resources** : 
                                                                                                                                                * CDC: Travelers' Health Website (General)
                                                                                                                                                * CDC: Traveler Information Center

## During and After Your Trip

#### During your trip, follow local guidelines and practice healthy habits

                                                                                                                                              * Pay attention to announcements from the local government in your travel destination and monitor the local health and security situation.
                                                                                                                                              * Follow any movement restrictions and prevention recommendations.
                                                                                                                                              * Wash your hands often with soap and running water, especially after coughing or sneezing. (Use alcohol-based hand sanitizer -- containing at least 60% alcohol1,2 -- when soap is not available and hands are not visibly dirty.)
                                                                                                                                              * Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when you cough or sneeze, and put the used tissue in the trash. If you don't have a tissue, cough or sneeze into your upper sleeve, not your hands.
                                                                                                                                              * Avoid close contact with sick people.

#### What to do if you feel sick

It is expected that most people infected with flu will recover without needing
medical care. However, if you have severe illness or you are at high risk for
flu complications, seek medical care.

A U.S. consular officer can help you find local medical care in a foreign
country. To contact the U.S. embassy or consulate in the country you are
visiting, call Overseas Citizens Services at: **1-888-407-4747** if calling
from the U.S. or Canada, **00-1-202-501-4444** if calling from other
countries. You can also visit the websites of U.S. Embassies, Consulates, and
Diplomatic Missions to find the contact information for the local U.S. Embassy
of the country you are visiting.

Follow all local health recommendations.

### Tips for After Your Trip

Closely monitor your health for 7 days. If you become ill with flu symptoms,
seek medical attention if they are severe.

                                                                                                                                              * Kampf G, Kramer A. Epidemiologic background of hand hygiene and evaluation of the most important agents for scrubs and rubs. Clin Microbiol Rev. 2004 Oct;17(4):863-93.
                                                                                                                                              * Todd EC, Michaels BS, Holah J, Smith D, Greig JD, Bartleson CA. Outbreaks where food workers have been implicated in the spread of foodborne disease. Part 10. Alcohol-based antiseptics for hand disinfection and a comparison of their effectiveness with soaps. J Food Prot. 2010 Nov;73(11):2128-40.

#### Footnote

_*Many authorities use either 100 (37.8 degrees Celcius) or 100.4 F (38.0
degrees Celsius) as a cut-off for fever, but this number actually can range
depending on factors such as the method of measurement and the age of the
person, so other values for fever could be appropriate. CDC has public health
recommendations that are based on the presence (or absence) of fever. What is
meant by this is that the person 's temperature is not elevated beyond their
norm._

* * *

Page last reviewed: October 21, 2019

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                              * Destinations
                                                                                                                                              * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                  * FAQ
                                                                                                                                              * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                              * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                  * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                  * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                  * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                  * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                  * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                  * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                  * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                  * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                  * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                  * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                  * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                  * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                  * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                  * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                  * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                  * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                  * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                  * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                    * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                  * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                  * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                  * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                  * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                  * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                  * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                  * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                  * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                  * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                  * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                  * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                  * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                  * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                  * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                  * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                  * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                  * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                    * Posters
                                                                                                                                                    * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                    * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                    * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                    * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                    * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                    * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                    * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                    * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                    * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                    * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                    * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                  * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                  * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                  * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                  * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                  * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                  * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                  * STDs
                                                                                                                                                  * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                  * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                  * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                  * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                  * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                  * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                  * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                  * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                  * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                  * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                  * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                  * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                  * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                  * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                              * Disease Directory (41)expand
                                                                                                                                                * Flu (Influenza)
                                                                                                                                                * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                  * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                              * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                * Contents
                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                    * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                    *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                * Tables
                                                                                                                                                * Maps
                                                                                                                                                * Figures
                                                                                                                                                * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                * Updates
                                                                                                                                                * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                  * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                              * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                * Text file
                                                                                                                                                * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                * Funding
                                                                                                                                                * Policies
                                                                                                                                                * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                * OIG
                                                                                                                                                * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                * RSS
                                                                                                                                                * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                * Email
                                                                                                                                                * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                * Post
                                                                                                                                                * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                * Listen
                                                                                                                                                * Watch
                                                                                                                                                * eCards
                                                                                                                                                * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

