

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate

### Counterfeit Medicines

![Bottle of pills](/travel/images/pill-bottle.jpg)

Counterfeit, or fake, medicines are manufactured using incorrect or harmful
ingredients. These medicines are then packaged and labeled to look like the
real thing. Counterfeit medicines are unsafe because they may not work and
could harm you.

Counterfeiting happens all over the world, but it's most common in countries
where there are few or no rules about making drugs. An estimated 10%-30% of
medicines sold in developing countries are counterfeit. In the industrialized
world (countries such as the United States, Australia, Japan, Canada, New
Zealand, and those in the European Union), estimates suggest that less than 1%
of medicines sold are counterfeit.

The only way to know if a drug is counterfeit is through chemical analysis
done in a laboratory. Counterfeit drugs may look strange or be in poor-quality
packaging, but they often seem identical to the real thing. The only way to
make sure you have the real thing is to bring all the drugs you will need
during your trip with you from the United States, rather than buying them
while you are traveling.

![Pills being manufactured](/travel/images/pill-manu.jpg)

If an emergency occurs and you must buy drugs during your trip, you can reduce
your chances of buying drugs that are counterfeit:

                                                                                                                                                    * Buy medicines only from licensed pharmacies and get a receipt. Do not buy medicines from open markets.
                                                                                                                                                    * Ask the pharmacist whether the drug has the same active ingredient as the one that you were taking.
                                                                                                                                                    * Make sure that the medicine is in its original packaging.
                                                                                                                                                    * Look closely at the packaging. Sometimes poor-quality printing or otherwise strange-looking packaging will indicate a counterfeit product.
                                                                                                                                                    * If you buy drugs online, visit Buying Prescription Medicines Online: A Consumer Safety Guide to learn how to buy safely.+

* * *

Page last reviewed: October 23, 2017

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                    * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                    * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                      * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                        * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                      * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                        * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                        * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                        * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                        * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                        * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                      * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                        * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                        * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                        * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                        * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                        * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                        * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                        * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                        * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                        * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                        * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                        * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                        * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                        * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                        * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                          * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                        * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                        * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                        * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                        * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                        * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                        * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                        * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                        * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                        * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                        * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                        * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                        * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                        * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                        * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                        * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                        * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                        * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                          * Posters
                                                                                                                                                          * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                          * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                          * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                          * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                          * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                          * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                          * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                          * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                          * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                          * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                          * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                        * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                        * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                        * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                        * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                        * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                        * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                        * STDs
                                                                                                                                                        * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                        * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                        * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                        * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                        * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                        * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                        * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                        * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                        * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                        * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                        * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                        * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                        * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                        * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                        * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                        * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                        * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                        * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                        * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                      * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                      * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                    * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                      * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                      * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                        * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                    * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                      * Contents
                                                                                                                                                        * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                          * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                          * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                          *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                      * Tables
                                                                                                                                                      * Maps
                                                                                                                                                      * Figures
                                                                                                                                                      * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                      * Updates
                                                                                                                                                      * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                        * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                    * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                      * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                      * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                      * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                      * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                      * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                      * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                      * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                      * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                      * Text file
                                                                                                                                                      * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                      * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                      * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                      * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                      * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                      * Post
                                                                                                                                                      * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                      * Listen
                                                                                                                                                      * Watch
                                                                                                                                                      * eCards
                                                                                                                                                      * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

