Link: https://medlineplus.gov/dementia.html    
                                Description: People with dementia have serious problems with two or more brain functions, such as memory and language. Affects the ability to do normal activities.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Dementia

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/dementia.html

#  Dementia

Also called: Senility

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Symptoms
  * Diagnosis and Tests
  * Prevention and Risk Factors
  * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

  * Living With
  * Related Issues
  * Specifics
  * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

  * No links available

### Research

  * Statistics and Research
  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is dementia?

Dementia is a loss of mental functions that is severe enough to affect your
daily life and activities. These functions include

  * Memory
  * Language skills
  * Visual perception (your ability to make sense of what you see)
  * Problem solving
  * Trouble with everyday tasks
  * The ability to focus and pay attention

It is normal to become a bit more forgetful as you age. But dementia is not a
normal part of aging. It is a serious disorder which interferes with your
daily life.

### What are the types of dementia?

The most common types of dementia are known as neurodegenerative disorders.
These are diseases in which the cells of the brain stop working or die. They
include

  * Alzheimer's disease, which is the most common form of dementia among older people. People with Alzheimer's have plaques and tangles in their brain. These are abnormal buildups of different proteins. Beta-amyloid protein clumps up and forms plaques in between your brain cells. Tau protein builds up and forms tangles inside the nerve cells of your brain. There is also a loss of connection between nerve cells in the brain.
  * Lewy body dementia, which causes movement symptoms along with dementia. Lewy bodies are abnormal deposits of a protein in the brain.
  * Frontotemporal disorders, which cause changes to certain parts of the brain: 
    * Changes in the frontal lobe lead to behavioral symptoms
    * Changes in the temporal lobe lead to language and emotional disorders
  * Vascular dementia, which involves changes to the brain's blood supply. It is often caused by a stroke or atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries) in the brain.
  * Mixed dementia, which is a combination of two or more types of dementia. For example, some people have both Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia.

Other conditions can cause dementia or dementia-like symptoms, including

  * Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, a rare brain disorder
  * Huntington's disease, an inherited, progressive brain disease
  * Chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE), caused by repeated traumatic brain injury
  * HIV-associated dementia (HAD)

### Who is at risk for dementia?

Certain factors can raise your risk for developing dementia, including

  * Aging. This is the biggest risk factor for dementia.
  * Smoking
  * Uncontrolled diabetes
  * High blood pressure
  * Drinking too much alcohol
  * Having close family members who have dementia

### What are the symptoms of dementia?

The symptoms of dementia can vary, depending on which parts of the brain are
affected. Often, forgetfulness is the first symptom. Dementia also causes
problems with the ability to think, problem solve, and reason. For example,
people with dementia may

  * Get lost in a familiar neighborhood
  * Use unusual words to refer to familiar objects
  * Forget the name of a close family member or friend
  * Forget old memories
  * Need help doing tasks that they used to do by themselves

Some people with dementia cannot control their emotions and their
personalities may change. They may become apathetic, meaning that they are no
longer interested in normal daily activities or events. They may lose their
inhibitions and stop caring about other peoples' feelings.

Certain types of dementia can also cause problems with balance and movement.

The stages of dementia range from mild to severe. In the mildest stage, it is
just beginning to affect a person's functioning. In the most severe stage, the
person is completely dependent on others for care.

### How is dementia diagnosed?

To make a diagnosis, your health care provider

  * Will ask about your medical history
  * Will do a physical exam
  * Will check your thinking, memory, and language abilities
  * May do tests, such as blood tests, genetic tests, and brain scans
  * May do a mental health evaluation to see whether a mental disorder is contributing to your symptoms

### What are the treatments for dementia?

There is no cure for most types of dementia, including Alzheimer's disease and
Lewy body dementia. Treatments may help to maintain mental function longer,
manage behavioral symptoms, and slow down the symptoms of disease. They may
include

  * **Medicines** may temporarily improve memory and thinking or slow down their decline. They only work in some people. Other medicines can treat symptoms such as anxiety, depression, sleep problems, and muscle stiffness. Some of these medicines can cause strong side effects in people with dementia. It is important to talk to your health care provider about which medicines will be safe for you.
  * **Occupational therapy** to help find ways to more easily do everyday activities
  * **Speech therapy** to help with swallowing difficulties and trouble speaking loudly and clearly
  * **Mental health counseling** to help people with dementia and their families learn how to manage difficult emotions and behaviors. It can also help them plan for the future.
  * **Music or art therapy** to reduce anxiety and improve well-being

### Can dementia be prevented?

Researchers have not found a proven way to prevent dementia. Living a healthy
lifestyle might influence some of your risk factors for dementia.

## Start Here

  * Dementia (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
  * Dementia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) \- Short Summary
  * The Dementias: Hope through Research ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish
  * Understanding Memory Loss: What To Do When You Have Trouble Remembering ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging) \- PDF
  * What Is Dementia? Symptoms, Types, and Diagnosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging)

## Symptoms

  * What Are the Symptoms of Frontotemporal Disorders? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging)

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * ApoE (Apolipoprotein E) Genotyping (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
  * Dementia: Diagnosis and Tests (AGS Foundation for Health in Aging)
  * Frontotemporal Dementias: Diagnosis (Association for Frontotemporal Dementias)
  * Screening for Cognitive Impairment in Older Adults (U.S. Preventive Services Task Force) \- PDF

## Prevention and Risk Factors

  * Brain Health (Alzheimer's Association)
  * Brain Training for Seniors (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

  * 5 Things to Know about Complementary Health Practices for Cognitive Function, Dementia, and Alzheimer's Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
  * Frontotemporal Disorders: Treatment and Management ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging)
  * Medications for Memory (Alzheimer's Association)

## Living With

  * Dementia, Caregiving, and Controlling Frustration (Family Caregiver Alliance)
  * Tips for Living Alone with Early-Stage Dementia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging)

## Related Issues

  * Caring for a Person with a Frontotemporal Disorder ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging)
  * Cognitive Health ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging)
  * Dementia & Driving (Family Caregiver Alliance)
  * End-of-Life Care for People with Dementia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging) Also in Spanish
  * Going to the Hospital: Tips for Dementia Caregivers ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging) \- PDF
  * Sundowning: Late-Day Confusion (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

  * Basics of Frontotemporal Disorders ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging)
  * Binswanger's Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
  * CADASIL ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
  * Frontotemporal Dementia (Pick's Disease) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
  * KlÃ¼ver-Bucy Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
  * Multi-Infarct Dementia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
  * Parkinson's Disease Dementia (Alzheimer's Association)
  * Types of Dementia (Alzheimer's Association)
  * Types of Frontotemporal Disorders ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging)

## Genetics

  * Genetics Home Reference: cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: cerebral autosomal recessive arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: CHMP2B-related frontotemporal dementia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: dementia with Lewy bodies ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism-17 ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: GRN-related frontotemporal dementia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: inclusion body myopathy with early-onset Paget disease and frontotemporal dementia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: myoclonic epilepsy with ragged-red fibers ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Statistics and Research

  * Caregiving for Alzheimer's Disease or Other Dementia (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
  * Growing and Aging: Hispanic Population at Risk for Dementia (American Heart Association)
  * Mild Cognitive Impairment and Progession to Dementia: New Findings (American Academy of Neurology) \- PDF
  * Participating in the Arts Creates Paths to Healthy Aging (National Institute on Aging)
  * Scam Susceptibility May Signal Risk for Cognitive Decline (National Institute on Aging)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Dementia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * Common Questions About Participating in Alzheimer's and Related Dementias Research ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Brain 18F-FDG-PET: Utility in the Diagnosis of Dementia and Epilepsy.
  * Article: Screening for Cognitive Impairment in Older Adults: US Preventive Services Task...
  * Article: Screening for Cognitive Impairment in Older Adults: Updated Evidence Report and...
  * Dementia -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

  * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
  * National Institute on Aging ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

  * Dementia (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Dementia - behavior and sleep problems (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Dementia - daily care (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Dementia - keeping safe in the home (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Dementia and driving (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Dementia due to metabolic causes (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Mental status testing (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Dementia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dementia.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Brain PET scan
  * Dementia
  * Dementia - behavior and sleep problems
  * Dementia - daily care
  * Dementia - home care
  * Dementia - keeping safe in the home
  * Dementia - what to ask your doctor
  * Dementia and driving
  * Dementia due to metabolic causes
  * Mental status testing

  * Multi-infarct dementia
  * Organic brain syndrome
  * Pick disease

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

  * Alzheimer's Disease
  * Delirium
  * Lewy Body Dementia
  * Memory

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Dementia is the National
Institute on Aging

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Dementia_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 30 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 23 October 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

