

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                            * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                            * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                            * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                            * Email
                                                                                                                                                                            * Syndicate

### Scabies

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                            * What is scabies?
                                                                                                                                                                            * Who is at risk?
                                                                                                                                                                            * What can travelers do to prevent scabies?
                                                                                                                                                                            * Traveler Information
                                                                                                                                                                            * Clinician Information

### What is scabies?

Scabies is a condition of the skin caused by human itch mites. The mite
usually is spread by direct, prolonged, skin-to-skin contact with a person who
has scabies. Short contact with an infected person, such as a quick handshake
or hug, usually will not spread scabies. Scabies is spread easily to sexual
partners and household members. The most common symptoms of scabies are
intense itching (especially at night) and a small pimple-like skin rash.
Scabies can sometimes lead to major skin infections that may cause kidney
problems.

### Who is at risk?

![person scratching rash on arm](/travel/images/scratch-rash.jpg)

Scabies occurs worldwide and affects people of all races and social classes,
so all travelers are at risk. Scabies is often seen in developing countries,
and outbreaks are common in tropical areas. Scabies can spread rapidly in
crowded conditions. Travelers going to nursing homes, extended care
facilities, schools, and prisons are at higher risk.

### What can travelers do to prevent scabies?

There is no vaccine or medicine that prevents scabies. Travelers can protect
themselves by maintaining good personal hygiene and avoiding contact with a
person who has scabies.

                                                                                                                                                                            * **Avoid direct skin-to-skin contact with a person who has scabies, their clothing, and their bedding.**

#### If you feel sick and think you may have scabies:

                                                                                                                                                                            * Talk to your doctor or nurse if you feel seriously ill, especially if you have a fever. 
                                                                                                                                                                              * Tell them about your travel. 
                                                                                                                                                                                * They will give you a treatment lotion if you have scabies.
                                                                                                                                                                              * For more information about medical care abroad, see Getting Health Care Abroad and a list of International Joint Commission-accredited facilities.
                                                                                                                                                                              * Everyone who lives with you, even if they are not showing symptoms, should receive treatment for scabies.
                                                                                                                                                                              * Clothing and bedding that you used in the 3 days before you were treated should be machine washed in hot water and dried using hot dryer cycles. Items can also be dry-cleaned.
                                                                                                                                                                              * Items that cannot be dry-cleaned or laundered should be stored in a closed plastic bag for several days to kill mites

### Traveler Information

                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC Scabies Website
                                                                                                                                                                            * Scabies FAQs

### Clinician Information

                                                                                                                                                                            * Scabies in _CDC Health Information for International Travel -_ -"Yellow Book"  
                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC Scabies Website
                                                                                                                                                                            * Scabies Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                            * Scabies Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                            * Scabicides-Medication

* * *

Page last reviewed: October 28, 2013

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                            * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                            * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                              * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                              * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                              * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                  * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                  * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                  * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                              * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                              * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                            * Disease Directory (41)expand
                                                                                                                                                                              * Scabies
                                                                                                                                                                              * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                            * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                              * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                  *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                              * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                              * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                              * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                              * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                              * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                              * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                            * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                              * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                              * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                              * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                              * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                              * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                              * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                              * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                              * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                              * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                              * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                              * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                              * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                              * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                              * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                              * Post
                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                              * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                              * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                              * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                              * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

