

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

### Water Disinfection

Travelers who are heading to remote places to camp or hike or staying in
locations with unknown water quality may need to disinfect their drinking
water. Bottled water is a convenient solution, but the plastic bottles create
an ecological problem. Some methods to ensure safe drinking water are
described below.

### Heat

![teapot](/travel/images/teapot.jpg)

Most germs die quickly at high temperatures. Water that has been boiled for 1
minute is safe to drink after it has cooled. If no other means of water
treatment is available, an alternative to boiling is to use tap water that is
too hot to touch, which is probably at a temperature between 131°F (55°C) and
140°F (60°C). This temperature may be adequate to kill pathogens if the water
has been kept hot for some time. Travelers with access to electricity can
bring a small electric heating coil or a lightweight beverage warmer to boil
water.

### Filtering

A variety of filters are available from camping stores. Most have filter sizes
between 0.1 and 0.4 microns, which will remove bacteria from water but may not
remove viruses. Reverse osmosis filters remove bacteria and viruses and can
also remove salt from water, which is important for ocean voyagers.

### Chemicals

Tablets or packets of powder can be bought at camping stores to disinfect
water. These usually combine chemical disinfectants (such as chlorine or
iodine) with a substance that makes the water clear and improves its taste.
**Follow the instructions on the package closely --**you may need to wait
several hours until all the germs are killed. Household bleach can also be
used to disinfect water.

### Ultraviolet (UV) Light

Portable units that deliver a measured dose of UV light are effective to
disinfect small quantities of clear water. However, this technique is less
effective in cloudy water because small particles may shield germs from the
light.

### Solar Radiation

In emergencies, sunlight in the UVA range can substantially improve the
quality of water. In cloudy weather, water must be placed in the sun for 2
consecutive days.

Solar disinfection is not effective on cloudy, opaque water. If the headlines
in a newspaper cannot be read through the bottle of water, the water must be
clarified before solar irradiation is used.

Learn more about germ size, filtration type, and disinfection techniques.

* * *

Page last reviewed: February 20, 2020

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                              * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                              * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                  * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                              * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                              * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                  * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                  * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                  * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                    * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                  * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                  * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                    * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                    * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                  * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                              * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                              * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                    *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                  * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                              * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

