

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

### Polio

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                      * What is polio?
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Who is at risk?
                                                                                                                                                                                      * What can travelers do to prevent polio?
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveler Information
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Clinician Information

### What is polio?

Polio is a disease caused by a virus that affects the nervous system and is
mainly spread by person-to-person contact. Polio can also be spread by eating
raw or undercooked food or drinking water or other drinks that are
contaminated with the feces of an infected person.

Most people with polio do not feel sick. Some people have only minor symptoms,
such as fever, tiredness, nausea, headache, nasal congestion, sore throat,
cough, stiffness in the neck and back, and pain in the arms and legs. Most
people recover completely. In rare cases, polio infection causes permanent
loss of muscle function (paralysis) in the arms or legs (usually the legs);
death can occur if there is loss of function of the muscles used for breathing
or infection of the brain.

From the late 1940s to the early 1950s, polio crippled around 35,000 people
each year in the United States, making it one of the most feared diseases of
the 20th century. By 1979, the United States was polio free. For more
information about polio and how it was eliminated in the United States, see
**A Polio-Free US Thanks to Vaccine Efforts**.

The Global Polio Eradication Initiative was launched in 1988, with CDC as a
leading member. Substantial progress has been made in recent years, and only
three countries remain where polio has never been stopped: Afghanistan,
Nigeria, and Pakistan. The affected areas in these three countries have become
smaller. However, polio has been exported to countries that have previously
been polio-free. Until polio is stopped everywhere, even polio-free countries
are at risk for outbreaks.

### Who is at risk?

Travelers going to certain parts of Africa and Asia may be at risk for polio.
Everyone should be up-to-date with their routine polio vaccination series. In
addition, a one-time adult polio vaccine booster dose is recommended for
previously vaccinated travelers to certain countries. See individual
destination pages for vaccine recommendation information.

### What can travelers do to prevent polio?

#### Get the polio vaccine:

                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ask your doctor or nurse to find out if you are up-to-date with your polio vaccination and whether you need a booster dose before traveling. Even if you were vaccinated as a child or have been sick with polio before, you may need a booster dose to make sure that you are protected. See individual destination pages for vaccine recommendation information.

![woman getting vaccination](/travel/images/vaccine-injection.jpg)

                                                                                                                                                                                      * Make sure children are vaccinated.
                                                                                                                                                                                      * See Polio Vaccine Information Statement (VIS) for more information.

#### Eat safe foods and drink safe beverages:

Follow the Food and Water Safety tips to avoid exposure to any food and drinks
that could be contaminated by the feces of a person infected with polio.

#### Practice hygiene and cleanliness:

                                                                                                                                                                                      * Wash your hands often.
                                                                                                                                                                                      * If soap and water aren't available, clean hands with hand sanitizer (containing at least 60% alcohol).
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Don't touch your eyes, nose, or mouth. If you need to touch your face, make sure your hands are clean.
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or your sleeve (not your hands) when coughing or sneezing.
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Try to avoid close contact with other people, such as kissing, hugging, or sharing eating utensils or cups with people who are sick.

#### If you feel sick and think you may have polio:

                                                                                                                                                                                      * Talk to your doctor or nurse if you feel seriously ill, especially if you have a fever or weakness of a limb. 
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tell them about your travel.
                                                                                                                                                                                        * If you are overseas and need information about medical care abroad, see Getting Health Care Abroad and a list of Joint Commission International-accredited facilities.
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Avoid contact with other people while you are sick. 
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Do not prepare or serve food to other people.

### Traveler Information

                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC Polio Eradication Homepage
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Polio Vaccine Questions and Answers
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Food and Water Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Vaccine Information Statements (VIS)

### Clinician Information

                                                                                                                                                                                      * Clinical Update: Interim CDC Guidance for Travel to and from Countries Affected by the New Polio Vaccine Requirements
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Polio in _CDC Health Information for International Travel_ ("Yellow Book")
                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC Polio for Healthcare Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Poliomyelitis in _Epidemiology and Prevention of Vaccine-Preventable Diseases_ ("Pink Book")
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Polio Vaccination: Information for Healthcare Professionals

* * *

Page last reviewed: September 10, 2019

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                      * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                          * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                          * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                          * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                            * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                          * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                          * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                            * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                            * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                            * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                            * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                            * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                            * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                            * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                          * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Disease Directory (41)expand
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Polio
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                            * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                            *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                        * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                          * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                        * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                        * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                        * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                        * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                        * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                        * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                        * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

