

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate

### Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika

### What is Zika?

![Two women looking at mobile phone](/travel/images/zika-expat.jpg)Zika is
disease caused by a virus that is primarily spread to people through the bite
of an infected mosquito. Many people who get infected never have symptoms. In
people who get sick, symptoms (fever with rash, joint pain, or red eyes) are
usually mild and resolve completely.

Zika can cause serious birth defects in babies born to women who were infected
with Zika virus during pregnancy.  Current CDC research suggests that Zika
also is strongly associated with Guillain-Barre syndrome (GBS), a rare
disorder that can cause muscle weakness and paralysis for a few weeks to
several months. Only a small proportion of people with recent Zika virus
infection get GBS. Most people fully recover from GBS, but some have permanent
damage. For more information, see Zika Health Effects and Risks.

Zika can also spread through sex. People with Zika can pass Zika through sex
to their partners even if they do not have symptoms at the time, or if their
symptoms have gone away. We do not know how long a person who has had Zika can
pass it on through sex.

The mosquitoes that spread Zika usually do not live at elevations above 6,500
feet (2,000 meters). People who live in areas above this elevation are at a
very low risk of getting Zika from a mosquito unless they visit or travel
through areas of lower elevation. Because there is no vaccine or treatment for
Zika, people living in areas with Zika should take steps to prevent infection.

### Prevent Mosquito Bites

**All residents living in areas with Zika should take steps toprevent mosquito
bites:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Cover exposed skin by wearing long-sleeved shirts and long pants.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Use insect repellents that are registered with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and contain DEET, picaridin, IR3535, oil of lemon eucalyptus or para-menthane-diol, or 2-undecanone (methyl nonyl ketone). Always use as directed. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pregnant and breastfeeding women can use all EPA-registered insect repellents, including DEET, according to the product label.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Most repellents, including DEET, can be used on children older than 2 months of age (OLE and PMD should not be used on children younger than 3 years). Adults should spray insect repellent onto their hands and then apply to a child's face.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Use permethrin-treated clothing and gear (boots, pants, socks, tents).* You can buy pre-treated items or treat them yourself.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Stay and sleep in screened-in or air-conditioned rooms.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Sleep under a mosquito bed net if air conditioned or screened rooms are not available or if sleeping outdoors.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Mosquito netting can be used to cover babies younger than 2 months old in carriers, strollers, or cribs to protect them from mosquito bites.

*Permethrin should not be used in Puerto Rico.

### Pregnant Women and Zika

Zika virus can pass from a pregnant woman to her fetus and can cause a serious
birth defect of the brain called microcephaly in babies of women who had Zika
virus while pregnant. Babies with microcephaly often have smaller brains that
might not have developed properly. Other problems, such as eye defects,
hearing loss, and impaired growth, have been detected among fetuses and
infants infected with Zika virus before birth.

Pregnant women should not travel to any area with Zika outbreaks (red areas).
If travel to one of these areas is necessary, pregnant women should talk to
their doctor or other health care provider first, strictly follow steps to
prevent mosquito bites, and practice safe sex during the trip.

Before traveling to other areas with risk of Zika (purple areas), pregnant
women should discuss their travel plans with their health care provider and
carefully consider the risks and possible consequences of travel to these
areas.

For more information about pregnancy and Zika, visit
http://www.cdc.gov/zika/pregnancy/.

### Practice Safe Sex for Zika Prevention

Condoms (or other barriers to prevent infection) can reduce the chance of
getting Zika from sex. To be effective, condoms must be used correctly from
start to finish, every time during vaginal, anal, and oral sex. People with
Zika can pass Zika to their partners even if they do not have symptoms at the
time, or if their symptoms have gone away. Not having sex can eliminate the
risk of getting Zika from sex.

                                                                                                                                                                                                    * **People with pregnant partners** should use condoms every time they have sex or should not have sex during the pregnancy.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * **All pregnant women** with sex partners who live in or have traveled to an area with Zika should use condoms or not have sex during their pregnancy, even if their partners do not have Zika symptoms, or if their symptoms have gone away.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * **All people** who live in or have traveled to an area with Zika should consider using condoms to protect their sex partners.

For more information about Zika and sexual transmission, visit
http://www.cdc.gov/zika/transmission/sexual-transmission.html.

### Zika Testing for Pregnant Women

Please visit CDC's Zika health care provider website for testing
recommendations for pregnant women.

### Discuss Pregnancy Planning with Healthcare Provider

If you are thinking about pregnancy, talk with your healthcare provider and
wait to become pregnant (see "Women Trying to Become Pregnant" for how long to
wait). You also should use condoms after travel to protect your sex partners
from Zika even if you are not pregnant or trying to become pregnant.

Women who are at risk of Zika and do not want to get pregnant should talk with
their doctor or other healthcare provider about ways to prevent unintended
pregnancy, including birth control methods. Women should consider safety,
effectiveness, availability, and acceptability when choosing a birth control
method.

### If You or Your Partner Becomes Pregnant, Talk to Your Doctor

                                                                                                                                                                                                    * You are at risk of getting Zika throughout your pregnancy. For this reason, CDC recommends testing at the first prenatal visit and a second test in the second trimester.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * If you have symptoms of Zika (fever, rash, joint pain, or red eyes) at any time during your pregnancy, you should be tested for Zika. A healthcare provider may also test for similar diseases, like dengue or chikungunya.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC has guidance to help doctors decide what tests are needed for pregnant women who may have been exposed to Zika.

### More Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika Virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika Travel Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika and Sexual Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Women and Their Partners Who Are Thinking about Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika and Pregnancy



* * *

Page last reviewed: February 28, 2019

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                          *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

