

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

### Senior Citizens

![seniors with binoculars](/travel/images/seniorsbinoculars.jpg)

The retirement years is a time that many take to explore the world. With a
little planning and some caution, senior travelers can prepare themselves for
international trips.

### Before you go

All travelers, including seniors, should see a doctor at least one month
before they travel. Tell your doctor about any medical conditions or medicines
you are taking, since this will influence medical decisions.

### Vaccines

![senior couple on beach](/travel/images/seniorsonbeach.jpg)

Before travel, you should be up-to-date on routine vaccines, such as
measles/mumps/rubella, seasonal flu, and tetanus. More than half of tetanus
cases are in people over 65, so consider getting a tetanus booster before you
travel.

You should also receive other vaccines recommended for the countries you are
visiting. These may include vaccines for hepatitis, typhoid, or polio. See
CDC's destination tool for a full list of vaccines for each country.

Use of some vaccines may be restricted based on your age or other illnesses.
For example, if you are older than 60 or if you have underlying health
conditions, and you have never before received yellow fever vaccine, talk to
your doctor about the advisability of getting this shot. Discuss your
itinerary and the details of your travel plans with your doctor and, if
necessary, alternatives to vaccination.

### Medication

![seniors backpacking](/travel/images/seniorbackpackers.jpg)

To watch out for possible interactions with travel medications, make sure the
doctor knows all the medications you take routinely. A doctor may prescribe
medicine for malaria, altitude sickness, or travelers' diarrhea. Travelers'
diarrhea is common and may be more serious in seniors, so carefully follow
food and water precautions.

For any medication you may take, plan to pack enough for the duration of the
trip, plus a few days' extra in case of travel delays. Counterfeit drugs are
common overseas, so take only medicine you bring with you from the United
States.

Carry prescription medicine in its original container, along with a copy of
the prescription. Pack medicine in your carry-on luggage, in case checked
baggage gets lost.

### Injury Prevention

![seniors on safari](/travel/images/seniorssafari.jpg)

Although exotic infections make the headlines, **injury is the most common
cause of preventable death among travelers.**

You can minimize your risk of road accidents by following these tips:

                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Always wear seatbelts.
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * When possible, avoid riding in a car in a developing country at night.
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Do not ride motorcycles. If you must ride a motorcycle, wear a helmet.
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Know local traffic laws before you get behind the wheel.
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Do not drink and drive.
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ride only in marked taxis that have seatbelts.
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Avoid overcrowded, overweight, or top-heavy buses or vans.
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Be alert when crossing the street, especially in countries where people drive on the left.

Consider your physical limitations, including things you may not think of like
recovery from jet lag, motion sickness, and be aware that seniors may be at a
greater risk for deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and blood clots related to long
distance travel.

Research your destination in advance to see what factors can affect your
health, such as the elevation, climate, and risk of natural disasters. Senior
travelers may have more problems in those extreme situations.

### Consider Travel Insurance

Consider purchasing supplemental travel health insurance in case of injury or
illness overseas. Many health plans, including Medicare, will not pay for
services received outside the United States. Also, consider purchasing medical
evacuation insurance, which will pay for emergency transportation to a
hospital.

* * *

Page last reviewed: November 18, 2019

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                              *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

