Link: https://medlineplus.gov/parkinsonsdisease.html    
                                Description: Parkinson&#39;s disease (PD) is a movement disorder. It causes tremors, stiffness, and slow movement. It gets worse over time. Learn what can help.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Parkinson's Disease

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/parkinsonsdisease.html

#  Parkinson's Disease

Also called: Paralysis agitans, Shaking palsy

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Symptoms
  * Diagnosis and Tests
  * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

  * Living With
  * Related Issues
  * Specifics
  * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

  * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

  * Statistics and Research
  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Reference Desk
  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Children
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a type of movement disorder. It happens when nerve
cells in the brain don't produce enough of a brain chemical called dopamine.
Sometimes it is genetic, but most cases do not seem to run in families.
Exposure to chemicals in the environment might play a role.

Symptoms begin gradually, often on one side of the body. Later they affect
both sides. They include

  * Trembling of hands, arms, legs, jaw and face 
  * Stiffness of the arms, legs and trunk 
  * Slowness of movement 
  * Poor balance and coordination 

As symptoms get worse, people with the disease may have trouble walking,
talking, or doing simple tasks. They may also have problems such as
depression, sleep problems, or trouble chewing, swallowing, or speaking.

There is no specific test for PD, so it can be difficult to diagnose. Doctors
use a medical history and a neurological examination to diagnose it.

PD usually begins around age 60, but it can start earlier. It is more common
in men than in women. There is no cure for PD. A variety of medicines
sometimes help symptoms dramatically. Surgery and deep brain stimulation (DBS)
can help severe cases. With DBS, electrodes are surgically implanted in the
brain. They send electrical pulses to stimulate the parts of the brain that
control movement.

NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Start Here

  * Parkinson's Disease (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Parkinson's Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) \- Short Summary
  * Parkinson's Disease: Hope through Research ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish
  * What Is Parkinson's Disease? (Parkinson's Foundation)

## Symptoms

  * Movement Symptoms (Parkinson's Foundation)
  * Non-Movement Symptoms (Parkinson's Foundation)

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Diagnosis (Parkinson's Disease) (Parkinson's Foundation)

## Treatments and Therapies

  * Deep Brain Stimulation for Parkinson's Disease and Other Movement Disorders ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish
  * How Is Parkinson's Disease Treated? (Parkinson's Foundation)
  * Over the Counter & Complementary Therapies (Parkinson's Foundation)
  * Prescription Medications (Parkinson's Foundation)

## Living With

  * Activities of Daily Living (Parkinson's Foundation)
  * Advice for the Newly Diagnosed (Parkinson's Foundation)
  * Diet and Nutrition (Parkinson's Disease) (Parkinson's Foundation)
  * Expert Care (Parkinson's Foundation)
  * Living with Parkinson's (Parkinson's Foundation)
  * Managing Parkinson's (Parkinson's Foundation)
  * Medical Marijuana (Parkinson's Foundation)
  * Mobility (Parkinson's Disease) (Parkinson's Foundation)
  * Parkinson's Disease: Exercise (Parkinson's Foundation)
  * Parkinson's Foundation: For Caregivers (Parkinson's Foundation) \- PDF

## Related Issues

  * Care Partners (Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson's Research)
  * Cognitive Changes (Parkinson's Foundation) \- PDF
  * Conditions Related to Parkinson's (Parkinson's Foundation)
  * Conditions that Mimic Parkinson's (Parkinson's Foundation)
  * Driving When You Have Parkinson's Disease (National Highway Traffic Safety Administration) \- PDF
  * Essential Tremor vs. Parkinson's Disease: How Do They Differ? (International Essential Tremor Foundation) \- PDF
  * Pain in Parkinson's Disease (Parkinson's Foundation)
  * Parkinson's Disease Dementia (Alzheimer's Association)
  * Sleep Disorders (Parkinson's Foundation)
  * Speech and Swallowing (Parkinson's Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * Stages of Parkinson's (Parkinson's Foundation)

## Specifics

  * Young-Onset Parkinson's (Parkinson's Foundation)

## Genetics

  * About Parkinson's Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Human Genome Research Institute)
  * Genetics Home Reference: dopamine transporter deficiency syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: Parkinson disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Videos and Tutorials

  * Parkinson's disease ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Parkinson's Disease Videos ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Parkinson's Foundation)

## Statistics and Research

  * Ability to Consent to Parkinson Disease Research (American Academy of Neurology) \- PDF
  * Accelerating Medicines Partnership launches data knowledge portal for Parkinson's disease (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
  * Parkinson's Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences)
  * Protein Affected by Rare Parkinson's Mutation May Lurk Behind Many Cases of the Disease (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
  * Self-Tuning Brain Implant Could Help Treat Patients with Parkinson's Disease (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
  * Statistics (Parkinson's Foundation)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Parkinson Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Abnormal things happening during sleep: parasomnias.
  * Article: Diagnosis and Treatment of Parkinson Disease: A Review.
  * Article: Geriatric Rehabilitation: Gait in the Elderly, Fall Prevention and Parkinson Disease.
  * Parkinson's Disease -- see more articles
  * Causes of Parkinson's disease -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

  * Life and Death of a Neuron ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
  * Parkinson's Disease Foundation News (Parkinson's Foundation)
  * Parkinson's Disease Glossary (Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson's Research)

## Find an Expert

  * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish

## Children

  * Parkinson's Disease (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

  * Deep brain stimulation (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Parkinson disease (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Secondary parkinsonism (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Swallowing problems (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Enfermedad de
Parkinson](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Parkinson'sDisease.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Brain PET scan
  * Brain surgery
  * Brain surgery - discharge
  * Deep brain stimulation
  * Parkinson disease
  * Parkinson's disease
  * Secondary parkinsonism
  * Swallowing problems

## Related Health Topics

  * Movement Disorders

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Parkinson's Disease is the
National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Parkinson 's
Disease_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 27 February 2020 Topic last reviewed: 29 November 2019

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

