

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

### Pregnant Travelers

![Pregnant woman in airport](/travel/images/pregnant-airport.jpg)

Pregnant women can generally travel safely with a little preparation. But they
should avoid some destinations, including those with Zika and malaria risk.
Learn about steps you can take if you're pregnant and planning an
international trip, especially to a developing country. Follow these tips to
keep you and your baby safe and healthy.

### Zika and Malaria

The Zika virus is spread through mosquito bites and sex. Because Zika
infection in a pregnant woman can cause severe birth defects, pregnant women
should not travel to any area with risk of Zika. If you must travel to an area
with Zika risk, take strict precautions to prevent mosquito bites and avoid
sexual transmission. If you have a sex partner who lives in or has traveled to
an area with Zika, you should use condoms for the rest of your pregnancy. Find
out more at CDC's Zika Travel Information page or CDC's page about Zika and
pregnancy.

Pregnant women also should avoid travel to areas with Malaria in pregnant
women can be more severe than in women who are not pregnant. Malaria can
increase the risk for serious pregnancy problems, including premature birth,
miscarriage, and stillbirth. If you must go to an area with malaria while you
are pregnant, talk to your doctor about taking a drug to prevent malaria.
Malaria is spread by mosquitoes, so you should also wear effective insect
repellent and take other precautions to avoid mosquito bites.

### Pretravel Care and Travel Health Insurance

![Pregnant woman with doctor](/travel/images/pregnant-with-doctor.jpg)

The first thing you should do when planning an international trip is to make
an appointment with a healthcare provider who specializes in travel medicine.
You should ideally visit the travel clinic at least 4-6 weeks before you
leave. A travel medicine specialist can review your itinerary, make
recommendations based on the health risks at your destination, and give you
any vaccines you may need. You should also talk to your obstetrician (OB/GYN)
about your trip for advice on whether it's safe for you to travel. Your travel
medicine doctor and your obstetrician may need to talk to each other about
your care.

Next, consider how you are going to get care overseas, if you need it. Your
health insurance in the United States might not pay for medical care in
another country, so check with your insurance company. Consider getting
supplemental travel health insurance, and make sure the policy will also cover
the baby if you give birth during your trip. If you are traveling to a remote
area, an insurance policy that covers medical evacuation will pay for your
transportation to a high-quality hospital in case of emergency.

### Transportation Issues

![Pregnant woman putting on seat belt in carp](/travel/images//pregnant-
car.jpg)

Before you book a flight, check how late in your pregnancy the airline will
let you fly. Most will let you fly until 36 weeks, but some have an earlier
cutoff. Your feet may become swollen on a long flight, so wear comfortable
shoes and loose clothing and try to walk around every hour or so. Pregnancy
makes blood clots during travel much more likely. To reduce your risk of a
blood clot, your doctor may recommend compression stockings or leg exercises
you can do in your seat.

If you are going on a cruise, check with the cruise line to find out if it has
specific guidance for pregnant women. Most will not allow you to travel after
24-28 weeks of pregnancy, and you may need to have a note from your doctor
stating you are fit to travel.

Car crashes are a leading cause of injury for healthy US travelers abroad. At
your destination, always wear a seatbelt on a car or bus. A lap belt with
shoulder strap is best, and the straps should be placed carefully above and
below your stomach.

### Food and Water Safety

![pregnant woman drinking water](/travel/images/pregnant-water.jpg)

Travelers' diarrhea is caused by eating or drinking contaminated food or
water. The dehydration caused by diarrhea can be more of a problem for
pregnant women than for others. In addition, other bacteria and viruses spread
by food or water can lead to more severe illnesses that can cause problems for
a pregnant woman and her baby. Therefore, if you are traveling in a developing
country, you should carefully follow food and water safety measures:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Eat only food that is cooked and served piping hot.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Do not eat cold food or food that has been sitting at room temperature (such as a buffet).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Do not eat raw or undercooked meat or fish.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Eat fresh fruits and vegetables only if you can peel them or wash them in clean water.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Do not eat unpasteurized dairy products.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Drink only water, sodas, or sports drinks that are canned or bottled and sealed (carbonated is safer because the bubbles indicate that it was sealed at the factory).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Do not drink anything with ice in it--ice may be made with contaminated water.

If you get travelers' diarrhea, the best thing to do is drink plenty of safe
liquids while you wait for it to go away on its own. However, your doctor may
give you an antibiotic you can take in case diarrhea is moderate or severe.
Diarrhea is considered "moderate" when it is distressing or interferes with
planned activities, and "severe" when it is disabling or completely prevents
planned activities. Do not take products containing bismuth, such as Pepto-
Bismol or Kaopectate. These medicines are not recommended for pregnant women.

* * *

Page last reviewed: October 31, 2017

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

