

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate

### Mumps

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What is mumps?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Who is at risk?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What can travelers do to prevent mumps?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Traveler Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Clinician Information

### What is mumps?

Mumps is a contagious disease that is spread when infected people cough,
sneeze, or talk. Sharing items, like cups or drink cans, with infected people
can also spread the virus.  The virus can also live on items and surfaces
touched by an infected person for several hours.

Symptoms of mumps are fever, headache, muscle aches, tiredness, loss of
appetite, and swollen and tender salivary glands under the ears or jaw on one
or both sides of the face (parotitis). Most people with mumps recover fully.
However, mumps can occasionally cause complications, such as swelling of the
brain, testicles (in males), and ovaries and breasts (in females), and
temporary or permanent deafness.

### Who is at risk?

Because the mumps vaccine is not used everywhere, mumps is a common disease in
many countries. The risk of mumps for travelers is high in many countries of
the world, including industrialized countries, such as the United Kingdom,
which has had several outbreaks since 2004, and Japan, which does not
routinely vaccinate against mumps. Risk is especially high for travelers older
than 1 year who have not had mumps vaccine.

### What can travelers do to prevent mumps?

#### Get a mumps vaccine:

![woman getting vaccination](/travel/images/vaccine-injection.jpg)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * People who cannot show that they were vaccinated as children and who have never had mumps should be vaccinated.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The only mumps vaccines available in the United States are the measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) and the measles-mumps-rubella-varicella (MMRV) vaccines.  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescents and adults who have not had mumps or have not been vaccinated with MMR should get 2 doses, separated by at least 28 days.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infants 6 months through 11 months of age should have 1 dose of MMR vaccine if traveling internationally. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Children in the United States  routinely receive MMR vaccination at age 12-15 months
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Children 12 months of age or older should have 2 doses, separated by at least 28 days.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * MMR has been used safely and effectively since the 1970s. A few people experience mild, temporary adverse reactions, such as joint pain, from the vaccine, but serious side effects are extremely rare. There is no link between MMR and autism. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Two doses of this vaccine are nearly 90% effective at preventing mumps.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * See Vaccine Information Statements (VIS) for more information.

#### Practice hygiene and cleanliness:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Wash your hands often.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * If soap and water aren't available, clean hands with hand sanitizer (containing at least 60% alcohol).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Don't touch your eyes, nose, or mouth. If you need to touch your face, make sure your hands are clean.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or your sleeve (not your hands) when coughing or sneezing.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Try to avoid close contact, such as kissing, hugging, or sharing eating utensils or cups, with people who are sick.

#### If you feel sick and think you may have mumps:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Talk to your doctor or nurse if you feel seriously ill, especially if you have a fever. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tell them about your travel.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * For more information about medical care abroad, see Getting Health Care Abroad and a list of International Joint Commission-accredited facilities.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Avoid contact with other people while you are sick.

### Traveler Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Mumps Homepage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Information for Travelers on Mumps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Mumps Vaccination Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Mumps Vaccine Information Statement

### Clinician Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Mumps in _CDC Health Information for International Travel_ -"Yellow Book"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Mumps Homepage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Information for Travelers on Mumps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Mumps Clinical Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Mumps: Standard Notifiable Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Mumps _in Epidemiology and Prevention of Vaccine-Preventable Diseases_ "Pink Book"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Mumps VIS

* * *

Page last reviewed: March 10, 2013

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Disease Directory (41)expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mumps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

