

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

### Hepatitis A

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What is hepatitis A?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Who is at risk?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What can travelers do to prevent disease?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveler Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Clinician Information

### What is hepatitis A?

Hepatitis A is a liver disease spread by contaminated food and water.  It can
also be spread from the hands of a person with hepatitis A. It is rarely
spread through sexual contact.

Symptoms include a sudden onset of fever, tiredness, loss of appetite, nausea,
vomiting, stomach pain, and jaundice (yellowing of the skin and eyes).  Some
people have no symptoms, while others have symptoms that last 1-6 months. Most
people recover with no lasting liver damage.

### Who is at risk?

Hepatitis A is a common infection among travelers to developing countries.
Travelers going to rural areas in developing countries have a higher risk of
getting hepatitis A infections than other travelers. However, hepatitis A
infections can happen in urban areas with "standard" tourist accommodations as
well.

People 1 year of age and older who are traveling to or working in countries
where they would have a high or intermediate risk of hepatitis A virus, should
strongly consider the Hepatitis A vaccine.  These areas include all parts of
the world **except** Canada, western Europe and Scandinavia, Japan, New
Zealand, and Australia.

### What can travelers do to prevent disease?

#### **Get a hepatitis A vaccine** :

![woman getting vaccine](/travel/images/vaccine-injection.jpg)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ask your doctor or nurse about hepatitis A vaccine. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The hepatitis A vaccine is given in 2 doses, 6 months apart. The vaccine is nearly 100% effective and has been a routine childhood vaccine in the United States since 2005.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * See Vaccine Information Statements (VIS) for more information.

#### Eat safe foods:

##### Eat

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food that is cooked and served hot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hard-cooked eggs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Fruits and vegetables you have washed in clean water or peeled yourself
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pasteurized dairy products

##### Don't eat

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food served at room temperature
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food from street vendors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Raw or soft-cooked (runny) eggs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Raw or undercooked (rare) meat or fish
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Unwashed or unpeeled raw fruits and vegetables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Peelings from fruit or vegetables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Condiments (such as salsa) made with fresh ingredients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Salads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Unpasteurized dairy products
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * "Bushmeat" (monkeys, bats, or other wild game)

#### Drink safe beverages:

##### Drink

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Bottled water that is sealed (carbonated is safer)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Water that has been disinfected (boiled, filtered, treated)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ice made with bottled or disinfected water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Carbonated drinks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hot coffee or tea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pasteurized milk

##### Don't drink

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tap or well water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ice made with tap or well water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Drinks made with tap or well water (such as reconstituted juice)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Flavored ice and popsicles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Unpasteurized milk

For more information see Food and Water Safety.

#### Practice hygiene and cleanliness:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Wash your hands often.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * If soap and water aren't available, clean your hands with hand sanitizer (containing at least 60% alcohol).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Don't touch your eyes, nose, or mouth. If you need to touch your face, make sure your hands are clean.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Try to avoid close contact, such as kissing, hugging, or sharing eating utensils or cups with people who are sick.

#### If you feel sick and think you may have hepatitis A:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Talk to your doctor or nurse if you feel seriously ill, especially if you have a fever. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Tell them about your travel.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * For more information about medical care abroad, see Getting Health Care Abroad. See list of International Joint Commission-accredited facilities.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Avoid contact with other people while you are sick. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Do not prepare or serve food to other people.

### Traveler Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hepatitis A Patient Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC Hepatitis A website
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Vaccine Information Statement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * International Travel and Hepatitis A vaccination

### Clinician Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hepatitis A in _CDC Health Information for International Travel 201_ 2-"Yellow Book"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC Hepatitis A website
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hepatitis A: Standard Notifiable Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Case Definition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Vaccine Administration FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * International Travel and Hepatitis A vaccination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hepatitis A in _Epidemiology and Prevention of Vaccine-Preventable Diseases_ \- "Pink Book"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Vaccine Information Statement

* * *

Page last reviewed: January 15, 2019

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Disease Directory (41)expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Hepatitis A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

