

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate

### Blood Clots During Travel

Some long-distance travelers are at risk for a dangerous condition called deep
vein thrombosis (DVT). This condition occurs when a blood clot forms in a
large vein. Part of the clot may break off and travel to the lungs, causing a
sudden blockage of arteries in the lung. This is known as a pulmonary embolism
(PE). These conditions are rare, but can be fatal, so it's important to
understand what causes them, how to know if you are at risk, and what steps
you can take to prevent them.

### DVT Risk

![passengers on a plane](/travel/images/passengers.jpg)

Almost anyone can have DVT, but if you're traveling for a long time, such as
on an international trip, you may be at increased risk. This is because DVT
can be caused by sitting for a long time, potentially creating damage and slow
blood flow in the veins of your legs. This increased risk more often occurs
with air travel, where you're in a small space and it's hard to get up and
move around. But DVT can also happen when you are traveling by bus, train, or
car.

Most people who develop travel-associated DVT have other factors that increase
their chance of developing a DVT, including the following:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * A previous blood clot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Family history of blood clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Known clotting disorder
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Recent surgery, hospitalization, or injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Use of estrogen-containing birth control or hormone replacement therapy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Current or recent pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Older age (risk increases with age)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Active cancer (or undergoing chemotherapy)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * • Other serious illnesses, including congestive heart failure or inflammatory bowel disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Limited movement

### Preventing DVT

![deep vein thrombosis
animation](https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/dvt/images/DVT_Travel-Animation.gif)

_Anyone traveling more than 4 hours by air, by car, or by bus can be at risk
for blood clots._

You can take steps to help prevent DVT. For long distance travelers, these
steps include

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Get up occasionally and walk around. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Select an aisle seat when possible so you can walk around every 2-3 hours.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * If traveling by car, include breaks in your travel schedule to stretch and walk around.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Exercise your calf muscles and stretch your legs while you're sitting. Try these exercises next time you travel: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Raise and lower your heels while keeping your toes on the floor.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Raise and lower your toes while keeping your heels on the floor.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tighten and release your leg muscles.

If you are a long-distance traveler with additional factors that increase your
chance for developing a DVT, talk to your doctor about taking extra
precautions, such as

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Wearing properly fitted medical compression stockings and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Taking medication before you travel to prevent blood clots.

### Symptoms, Diagnosis, and Treatment

It is helpful to know the symptoms so you can recognize if you develop DVT or
PE.

DVT Symptoms

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Swelling, pain, or tenderness in the affected limb (usually the leg)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Unexplained pain or tenderness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Skin that is red and warm to the touch

PE Symptoms

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Difficulty breathing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Faster than normal heartbeat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Chest pain that usually gets worse when you cough or breathe deeply
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Coughing up blood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Very low blood pressure, lightheadedness or fainting

If you have symptoms of DVT, call a doctor right away. If you have symptoms of
PE, you should seek immediate medical care from a doctor or hospital. Finding
and treating these conditions early can prevent death or complications.

It is not possible to diagnose either condition without special tests
performed by a doctor to look for clots within veins in the legs, pelvis, and
chest, and within arteries in the lungs, such as an ultrasound, a CT scan, or
an MRI. That is why it is important for you to quickly seek medical care if
you experience symptoms of DVT or PE.

DVT and PE are treatable, although a large PE can cause sudden death.
Sometimes medicines or devices are used to dissolve or break up the clot.
Typically, medicines are taken for several weeks or months to prevent more
clots from forming and to give the body a chance to dissolve or heal existing
clots.

### Useful Information:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Podcast: Blood Clots and Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/dvt/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/dvt/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * http://www.clotconnect.org
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * http://www.thisisserious.org
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * http://www.stoptheclot.org



* * *

Page last reviewed: October 23, 2017

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

