

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

### Cruise Ship Travel

COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel

![man on cruise ship sleeping](/travel/images/cruise-ship.jpg)

**Don 't risk spoiling your cruise vacation with an unexpected illness. Follow
these tips for a safe and healthy cruise vacation.**

For many people, a cruise is an ideal way to relax and see the world. You are
surrounded by the gorgeous blue of the ocean, get waited on hand and foot,
have activities and events planned for you, and are provided with a seemingly
limitless supply of food and drinks--all while having the opportunity to visit
multiple countries and destinations.

Although cruising has many obvious pleasures, potential health hazards are
also a risk with cruise ship travel. Staying informed and preparing for these
potential hazards can help you stay healthy and get the most out of your
cruise vacation.

### Vaccines

![man on cruise ship sleeping](/travel/images/cruise-couple-dancing.jpg)

Regardless of your itinerary, you should be up-to-date on routine vaccines,
such as measles/mumps/rubella, varicella, and seasonal flu. Crew members and
fellow travelers often come from countries where these diseases are more
common than in the United States and where vaccination is not routine.
Consequently, outbreaks of chickenpox and rubella (German measles) have been
reported on cruise ships.

Additional vaccines you'll need depend on where you'll be stopping and what
you're going to do there. CDC's general vaccination recommendations, by
country, can be found on the Travelers' Health destination pages. However,
discuss the cruise itinerary and your specific travel plans with your doctor.
If you're stopping in a country only for a short time, or if you don't plan to
leave the tourist area around the dock, certain vaccines may not be necessary.

Even if you are not at risk for yellow fever during port calls, some countries
in Africa and South America may require proof of yellow fever vaccination if
you have previously visited a country with yellow fever. Visit the destination
pages for a country's yellow fever requirements. Cruise ship companies
sometimes have requirements that differ from those of the countries you will
be visiting, so be sure to check with the cruise line about those requirements
as well.

### Vomiting and Diarrhea

Zika Travel Information

If you are traveling to an area with Zika, be sure to follow CDC
recommendations to stay healthy and safe. All travelers to areas with Zika
should prevent mosquito bites. Zika can also be passed through sex from a
person who has Zika to his or her sex partners, so travelers should use
condoms. Condoms include male and female condoms.

Because Zika during pregnancy can cause serious birth defects, pregnant women
should not travel to areas with Zika. Couples who are trying to become
pregnant should talk to their doctor about their travel plans and see CDC
guidance for how long you should wait to get pregnant after travel to an area
with Zika.

Even if you do not feel sick, you should take steps to prevent mosquito bites
for 3 weeks after returning from an area with Zika. If a mosquito bites an
infected person while the virus is still in that person's blood, it can spread
the virus by biting another person. You should also use condoms after travel
to areas with Zika to protect your partners. Couples with a pregnant partner
should either use condoms or not have sex during the pregnancy.

For more information on Zika and travel, visit the Zika Travel Information
website.

Cruise ship outbreaks of vomiting and diarrhea, primarily caused by norovirus,
have been reported. The best way to prevent illness is frequent handwashing
with soap and water. Wash your hands before eating and after using the
bathroom, changing diapers, or touching things that other people have touched,
such as stair railings; it is also a good idea to avoid touching your face.

While on shore excursions, especially in developing countries, follow basic
food and water precautions: eat only food that is cooked and served hot, drink
only beverages from sealed containers, avoid ice, and eat fresh produce only
if you have washed it with clean water and peeled it yourself.

If you are feeling sick before your voyage, ask your cruise line if
alternative cruising options are available. Consult your doctor to find out
whether it is safe for you to sail. If you feel sick during your voyage,
report your symptoms to the ship's medical facility and follow their
recommendations. For more information about vomiting and diarrhea on cruise
ships, visit CDC's Vessel Sanitation Program website.

### Other Health Concerns

![man on cruise ship sleeping](/travel/images/cruise-man-sleeping.jpg)

Respiratory diseases are also common on cruise ships. Frequent handwashing can
keep you from getting sick, and coughing or sneezing into a tissue (not your
hand) can prevent you from spreading germs. Getting a flu shot is the best way
to keep from getting the flu.

Seasickness is a common complaint of cruise ship passengers. If you are (or
think you might be) prone to seasickness, talk to your doctor about medicine
to decrease your symptoms. Note that many common medications (including some
antidepressants, painkillers, and birth control pills) can worsen the nausea
of seasickness.

Various stressors associated with cruising--changes in diet, variation in
climate, changes to sleep and activity patterns--can worsen a chronic illness.
If you have been diagnosed with such an illness, you should be prepared to
monitor your health while on a cruise (for example, frequently testing your
blood sugar if you have diabetes). If you regularly take medicine for a
chronic illness, make sure you bring enough for the duration of the cruise,
plus extra in case of delays, and take it on the same schedule as you would at
home.

For more information on healthy travel, visit www.cdc.gov/travel.

### Travel Health Insurance and Evacuation Insurance

You should check with your regular health insurance company to see if your
policy will cover any medical care you might need in another country or on
board the ship. If not, you can purchase travel health insurance to cover you
during your trip.

Also, look for gaps in your insurance coverage. For example, your health
insurance might not cover medical evacuation if you cannot receive needed
treatment where you are. Evacuation by air ambulance can cost $50,000-$100,000
and must be paid in advance by people who do not have insurance. You can buy
medical evacuation insurance to be sure you will have access to emergency
care. See more information on travel health insurance.

### More Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC's Vessel Sanitation Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC's Green Sheet Report: List of sanitation inspection scores for specific cruise ships



* * *

Page last reviewed: March 08, 2020

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

