

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate

### HIV

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * What is HIV?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Who is at risk?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * What can travelers do to prevent HIV?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Traveler Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clinician Information

### What is HIV?

HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) is a virus that attacks the body's immune
system. It is spread through certain body fluids, including blood, sexual
fluids (like semen and vaginal or rectal fluids) and breast milk. Most people
get HIV from having unprotected sex (including vaginal or anal sex) with
someone who has HIV, or from sharing needles or other drug injection equipment
with someone who has HIV.

Early symptoms of HIV infection may include cough, body aches, headaches,
nasal congestion, and sore throat. These symptoms usually go away on their own
and can be mistaken for flu-like illness. Some people may have no early
symptoms at all and may feel healthy. The only way to know for sure whether
you have HIV is to get tested.

Over time, HIV infection damages the immune system, making it harder for the
body to fight off infections and other diseases, including heart disease,
kidney disease, liver disease, and cancer. Left untreated, HIV infection can
lead to AIDS (acquired immune deficiency syndrome). AIDS is the most severe
phase of HIV infection. People with AIDS have such badly damaged immune
systems that they get severe infections that don't normally infect healthy
people, called opportunistic infections, and eventually the infection leads to
death. No effective cure exists, but with early diagnosis and proper medical
care, HIV can be managed and controlled.

### Who is at risk?

![Condom](/travel/images/hiv-condom.jpg)

Travelers are generally at low risk for getting HIV unless they act in ways
that could put them at risk, such as having unprotected sex or sharing needles
with people who are or might be infected with HIV. Because people with HIV
infection may appear healthy for many years, you often can't tell if someone
has HIV.

Some developing countries may not adequately screen their blood supplies, and
travelers could become infected by receiving blood transfusions, blood
products, or organ/tissue transplants that are contaminated with HIV. Less
commonly, HIV may also be spread by being stuck with an HIV-contaminated
needle or other sharp object. This is a risk mainly for health care workers.

HIV infection affects people around the world. Sub-Saharan Africa remains the
most affected part of the world, but other regions significantly affected by
HIV include Asia and the Pacific, Latin America and the Caribbean, and Eastern
Europe and Central Asia.

### What can travelers do to prevent HIV?

#### Before travel:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Talk with your health care provider about "PrEP" (or pre-exposure prophylaxis). Travelers who are at high risk for HIV infection can discuss getting a daily pill that prevents HIV, known as "PrEP". Click here to find out your risk of HIV.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Get tested. Knowing your status is important because it helps you make healthy decisions to prevent getting or transmitting HIV.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Consider medical evacuation insurance. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * An injury or illness that requires invasive medical or dental treatment (injection, blood transfusion, stitches, etc.) could result in HIV infection or other illnesses if the blood supply is not properly screened or the equipment is not sterile.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Medical evacuation insurance may cover the cost to transfer you to the nearest place where you can get safe and complete care. Some policies may cover your eventual return to your home country. For more information, see Insurance(/travel/page/insurance).

#### During travel:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Before having sex for the first time with a new partner, you and your partner should talk about your sexual and drug-use history, disclose your HIV status, and consider getting tested for HIV and learning the results. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Don't assume someone is HIV- or STD-free if they don't bring it up, or based on how they look.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * If you have sex, use condoms every time you have vaginal, oral, or anal sex, from start to finish.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Do not inject drugs or share needles or other devices that can break the skin. If you do inject drugs, use only new, sterile needles and works.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * If you get tattoos, piercings, or acupuncture abroad, make sure a new, sterile needle is used each time.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * If you get medical or dental care abroad, make sure the equipment is unused or properly sterilized.

#### If you think you could have gotten HIV during travel:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Talk to your doctor or nurse if you feel seriously ill, especially if you have a fever or any other flu-like symptoms. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tell them about your travel and possible risk of exposure to HIV.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Get tested for HIV.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * For more information about medical care abroad, see Getting Health Care Abroad and a list of International Joint Commission-accredited facilities.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No effective cure exists for HIV. But with early diagnosis and proper medical care, HIV can be managed and controlled. Treatment for HIV is called antiretroviral therapy, or "ART." If taken as directed, every day, ART can dramatically prolong the lives of many people infected with HIV, keep them healthy, and greatly lower their chance of infecting others.

### Traveler Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC HIV website
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Basic Information on HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * HIV Fact Sheets and Resources

### Clinician Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * HIV Infection in _CDC Health Information for International Travel_ ("Yellow Book")
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * HIV Guidelines

* * *

Page last reviewed: May 01, 2018

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Disease Directory (41)expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

