

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Syndicate

### Stay Safe and Healthy on a Business Trip

![traveler with phone](/travel/images/traveler-phone.jpg)

**Business travelers face different health risks than leisure travelers do.
Find out what you can do to protect yourself.**

In 2017, an estimated 4.8 million US residents traveled overseas for business.
With the increasingly global economy, this number is expected to increase.
Because of the nature of the trip, business travelers may face different
health risks than leisure travelers. Find out about some risks of business
travel and what you can do to protect yourself.

#### "Smithers, I need you in Quito by Thursday morning."

You don't always know ahead of time when you'll be going on a business trip.
CDC recommends that you:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * See a doctor at least a month before a trip. But if you don't have that much time, even a last-minute visit can be useful.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Visit CDC's travel destinations page for more specific information on your destination.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pack a travel health kit. Your kit should include first-aid supplies, any prescription medicines you take, and over-the-counter medicine including medicine for diarrhea. Pack some latex condoms in your kit as well, because sexually transmitted diseases may be common where you're going.

![business traveler working on laptop](/travel/images/laptop-night.jpg)

#### "You'll take the red-eye and go straight to an 8 am meeting."

Leisure travelers may have time to be able to adjust to jet lag naturally, but
business travelers often have to hit the ground running. Consider these tips
to minimizing jet lag:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            *  If you have a few days before you leave, try to shift your sleep cycle a couple of hours earlier or later (depending on where you're going).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Stay hydrated while you're traveling.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Avoid alcohol and caffeine.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Try to sleep on long flights. If you have trouble sleeping on planes, you might want to pack a mild sedative in your carry-on luggage.

#### "This contract is worth millions to the company, so don't mess it up."

Business travelers are frequently under a lot of work stress, in addition to
the stress of traveling. To minimize the negative health effects of stress:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Eat healthy meals.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Exercise regularly.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Avoid alcohol.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Get a good night's rest.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * On longer trips, to maintain your mental health, stay in regular contact with your friends and family at home.

![Business traveler working on laptop on airplane](/travel/images/laptop-
airplane.jpg)

#### "Good job, Smithers. There's a promotion in your future."

Congratulations! You closed the deal, and now it's time to celebrate. Your
hosts may want to take you out to toast your new business relationship, but be
careful about

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Drinking too much. Alcoholic drinks in some countries can be stronger than you expect.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * What you eat and drink in developing countries. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Bottled water and food that is cooked and served hot are generally safe.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Avoid tap water, ice, and raw fruits and vegetables, or you may spend much of the return flight in the airplane bathroom.

If you do end up ill _during_ your trip, contact a doctor or other health care
provider at your destination. The US Embassy at your destination can help you
locate a doctor.

If you _return home and become ill_ , contact a doctor and mention your recent
travel history.

### More Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Destination health risk tool
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Getting Health Care Abroad 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food & Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC Foundation Business Pulse: Doing Business Abroad? CDC Helps You Travel Safe and Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Business Pulse Travelers' Health Infographic



* * *

Page last reviewed: February 14, 2019

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

