

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

### Hand, Foot, and Mouth Disease

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What is hand, foot, and mouth disease (HFMD)?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Who is at risk?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What can travelers do to prevent HFMD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Traveler Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Clinician Information

### What is hand, foot, and mouth disease (HFMD)?

Hand, foot, and mouth disease (HFMD) is a contagious disease that is caused by
different viruses. It usually affects infants and children under 5 years old.
Adults can also get the disease. Symptoms of hand, foot, and mouth disease
include fever, painful blister-like sores in the mouth, and a rash that may
appear as blisters. HFMD is usually mild, and nearly all infected people
recover in 7 to 10 days.

HFMD spreads through close personal contact, such as kissing or hugging,
coughing and sneezing, contact with feces, and touching objects or surfaces
that have the virus on them then putting your fingers in your eyes, nose or
mouth.

### Who is at risk?

![girls washing hands](/travel/images/girls-washing-hands.jpg)

Viruses that cause HFMD occur worldwide and happen more frequently in summer
and fall in temperate climates. Large outbreaks of severe HFMD occur
frequently in some countries in Asia. Thousands of people often can get
infected during these outbreaks.

### What can travelers do to prevent HFMD?

There is no vaccine to prevent HFMD. Travelers are advised to practice good
hygiene, including hand washing, to lower the risk of getting sick.

#### Practice hygiene and cleanliness:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Wash your hands often, especially before eating.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * If soap and water aren't available, clean your hands with hand sanitizer (containing at least 60% alcohol).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Don't touch your eyes, nose, or mouth. If you need to touch your face, make sure your hands are clean.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or your sleeve (not your hands) when coughing or sneezing.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Try to avoid close contact, such as kissing, hugging, or sharing eating utensils or cups with people who are sick.

#### Disinfect dirty surfaces and soiled items:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * If you are able, first wash the items with soap and water, then disinfect them with a solution of chlorine bleach (made by mixing 1 tablespoon of bleach with 4 cups of water) or a cleaning product that contains bleach.

####  

#### If you develop mouth sores and think you have HFMD:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Take over-the-counter medications to relieve pain and fever. (Caution: Children should not take aspirin.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Use mouthwashes or sprays that numb mouth pain.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Drink plenty of liquids to stay hydrated.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Seek medical care if you are unsure if you have HFMD or you cannot swallow liquids and stay hydrated.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Talk to your doctor or nurse if you feel seriously ill, especially if you have a fever. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Tell them about your travel.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * For more information about medical care abroad, see Getting Health Care Abroad and a list of International Joint Commission-accredited facilities.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Avoid contact with other people while you are sick.

### Traveler Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC Hand Foot Mouth Disease (HFMD) webpage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Prevention of HFMD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Outbreaks of HFMD in Asia

### Clinician Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC Hand Foot Mouth Disease (HFMD) webpage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Treatment of HFMD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Outbreaks of HFMD in Asia

* * *

Page last reviewed: March 10, 2013

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Disease Directory (41)expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Hand, Foot, and Mouth Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

