

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

### Tuberculosis (TB)

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What is tuberculosis (TB)?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Who is at risk?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What can travelers do to prevent tuberculosis?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveler Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Clinician Information

### What is tuberculosis (TB)?

Tuberculosis (TB) is a disease caused by a type of bacteria that usually
affects the lungs, but can occur in any part of the body. It is spread through
the air from one person to another when a person with TB coughs, sneezes,
speaks, or sings. Not everyone infected with TB becomes sick. Symptoms of TB
include a cough that last 3 weeks or longer, pain in the chest, coughing up
blood or sputum, weakness or tiredness, weight loss, lack of appetite, chills,
fever, and sweating at night. Bovine TB (a form of TB usually found in cattle)
is a risk in travelers who consume unpasteurized dairy products in countries
where TB in cattle is common.

### Who is at risk?

TB occurs throughout the world (see Map 3-13). Travelers who go to areas of
sub-Saharan Africa, Asia, and parts of Central and South America are at
greatest risk. Globally, nearly 9 million new TB cases and nearly 1.5 million
TB-related deaths occur each year.

### What can travelers do to prevent tuberculosis?

Although a TB vaccine exists, CDC does not recommend it for travelers. The
vaccine has limited effectiveness at preventing TB. Instead CDC recommends the
travelers take the following steps to prevent TB:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Avoid close contact or extended time with people who have TB.**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * This is especially important if you will be in a crowded environment, such as a clinic, hospital, prison, or homeless shelter.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Try to avoid close contact with people who are coughing and look sick.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Take special precautions if you will be around people with TB (such as those who will be working in hospitals, prisons, or homeless shelters).**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Talk to your doctor about being tested for TB infection before you leave the United States.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * If your test is _negative_ , have another test 8 to 10 weeks after you return to the United States.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * People working in health care settings should talk to an infection control or occupational health expert about procedures for preventing exposure to TB, such as being fit for an N95 respirator.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Avoid eating or drinking unpasteurized dairy products.**

#### If you feel sick and think you may have TB:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Talk to your doctor or nurse if you feel seriously ill, especially if you have a fever. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Schedule a TB test.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Tell them about your travel.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * For more information about medical care abroad, see Getting Health Care Abroad. See list of International Joint Commission-accredited facilities.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Avoid contact with other people while you are sick.

### Traveler Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tuberculosis Information for International Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * TB General Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC Tuberculosis Homepage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Get the Facts about TB disease

### Clinician Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tuberculosis  in _CDC Health Information for International Travel_ -"Yellow Book"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC Tuberculosis Homepage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tuberculosis Information for International Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * TB Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * TB Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tuberculosis-Standard Notifiable Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CE--TB 101 for Healthcare Workers

* * *

Page last reviewed: March 10, 2013

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Disease Directory (41)expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Tuberculosis (TB)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

