

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

### Yellow Fever Vaccine Course

### On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Course Description
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Learning Objectives and Goal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Take the Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Continuing Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accreditation Statements

**Recertified to: September 6, 2021**

CDC's Travelers' Health Branch has revised and recertified its online course
**" Yellow Fever Vaccine: Information for Health Care Professionals Advising
Travelers"** that provides comprehensive and up-to-date information on the
history and epidemiology of yellow fever, vaccine recommendations, the pre-
travel consultation, and how to become a designated yellow fever vaccination
provider.

## Course Description

The course: **" Yellow Fever Vaccine: Information for Health Care
Professionals Advising Travelers"** provides comprehensive and up-to-date
information on the history and epidemiology of yellow fever, vaccine
recommendations, the pre-travel consultation, and how to become a designated
yellow fever vaccination provider. No prior knowledge of the yellow fever
virus or vaccination is required to take this course. However, it is strongly
recommended that the modules be taken in sequence.

This course is intended for Physicians, Registered Nurses, Pharmacists,
Physician Assistants, Nurse Practitioners, Health Educators, Medical Students,
Medical Assistants, Licensed Practical Nurses, Epidemiologists, and Pharmacy
Technicians who advise travelers and/or would like to become designated
providers of yellow fever vaccine. Continuing Education credit is available
for those who have not taken the course in the past 2 years. A certificate of
completion is available to anyone who completes the course, regardless of CE
status.

![Yellow fever vaccine continuing education](http://www.cdc.gov/travel-
training/images/hp-button.jpg)

The course consists of two modules.  **Module 1, _Yellow Fever: History,
Epidemiology, and Vaccine Information_** , provides a history of yellow fever,
critical information needed to understand the epidemiology of yellow fever
disease, as well as important facts about the vaccine. This module includes
nine Knowledge Check questions and, at the end, two Test Your Knowledge case
examples to help reinforce your understanding of the material.

**Module 2, _The Pre-travel Consultation and Best Practices for Yellow Fever
Vaccine Providers and Clinics_** , provides pretravel consultation advice for
health care providers regarding yellow fever vaccination, as well as
recommendations for best practices for yellow fever vaccination clinics. This
module includes ten Knowledge Check questions to help reinforce your
understanding of the material.

## Goal

The goal of this course is to provide physicians, physician assistants,
pharmacists, nurses, and health education specialists with information about
yellow fever, the disease and the vaccine. Health-care providers can use this
information to --

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1. Make appropriate decisions regarding the vaccination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2. Handle the vaccine safely
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3. Offer sound advice to travelers before they travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4. Conduct appropriate travel and pre-travel consultations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5. Utilize best practices within yellow fever vaccination clinics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6. Comply with International Health Regulations and Certificate Requirements 

## Learning Objectives

After completing this web-based course, the learner should be able to --

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1. Critically discuss the history of yellow fever disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2. Identify how yellow fever virus is transmitted and its three transmission cycles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3. Identify contraindications and precautions to administering yellow fever vaccine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4. Describe the information needed to conduct a pretravel consultation with regard to yellow fever vaccination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5. Locate country-specific yellow fever vaccine entry requirements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6. Identify the process for getting and maintaining designated yellow fever vaccine provider status

## Take the Course

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1. The course is available on CDC TRAIN.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2. Select the Register button. You will be prompted to log in or create an account on CDC TRAIN.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3. In the Content tab select the modules to register and view the course. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. **Module One: Yellow Fever: History, Epidemiology and Vaccine Information**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. **Module Two: The Pre-Travel Consultation and Best Practices for Yellow Fever Vaccination Providers and Clinics**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4. Once completed select the **Mark Complete** button for the lessons and also then for the overall course.

Please read the instructions in CDC-TRAIN for completing each of the two
mdoules, the posttest, evaluation and printing a certificate of completion. If
CE is desired, be sure to follow the directions to complete requirements for
CE.

## Instructions for Obtaining Continuing Education

In order to receive continuing education (CE) for WB4055 Yellow Fever Vaccine:
Information for Health Care Professionals Advising Travelers please visit TCEO
and follow these Simple Steps before [9/6/2021]

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Complete the activity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Complete the Evaluation at www.cdc.gov/GetCE 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pass the posttest at _80_____% at www.cdc.gov/GetCE

**FEES:** No fees are charged for CDC's CE activities.

## Continuing Education

This course (CB/WB4055) has been approved for the following continuing
education credits:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CME (Physicians)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CME (Non-physicians)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CNE (Continuing Nursing Education Credits)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CEU (Continuing Education Units)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CECH (Certified Health Education Specialists)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CPE (Pharmacists)

## Accreditation Statements

**Continuing Medical Education for Physicians (CME)**

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is accredited by the
Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME®) to provide
continuing medical education for physicians.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention designates this educational
activity for a maximum of ( **2.5** ) _AMA PRA Category 1 Credits_ ™.
Physicians should only claim credit commensurate with the extent of their
participation in the activity.

**Non-physicians**

Non-physicians will receive a certificate of participation.

**Continuing Nursing Education (CNE)**

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is accredited as a provider of
Continuing Nursing Education by the American Nurses Credentialing Center's
Commission on Accreditation.

This activity provides ( **2.4** ) contact hours.

**Continuing Education Contact Hours in Health Education (CECH)**

Sponsored by the _Centers for Disease Control and Prevention_ , a designated
provider of continuing education contact hours (CECH) in health education by
the National Commission for Health Education Credentialing, Inc. This program
is designed for Certified Health Education Specialists (CHES) and/or Master
Certified Health Education Specialists (MCHES) to receive up to ( **2.5)**
total Category I continuing education contact hours. Maximum advanced level
continuing education contact hours available are **0**. CDC provider number
**98614**.

![ACPE logo](/travel/images/acpe-logo.gif) **Continuing Pharmacy Education
(CPE)**

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is accredited by the
Accreditation Council for Pharmacy Education as a provider of continuing
pharmacy education.

This program is a designated event for pharmacists to receive (0.24) CEUs in
pharmacy education. The Universal Activity Number is 0387-0000-18-205-H04-P.

Course Category: This activity has been designated as Knowledge-Based.

Once credit is claimed, an unofficial statement of credit is immediately
available on TCEOnline. Official credit will be uploaded within 60 days on the
NABP/CPE Monitor.

Once credit is claimed, an unofficial statement of credit is immediately
available on TCEOnline. Official credit will be uploaded within 60 days on the
NABP/CPE Monitor.

CDC, our planners, our content experts, and their spouses/partners wish to
disclose they have no financial interests or other relationships with the
manufacturers of commercial products, suppliers of commercial services, or
commercial supporters. Planners have reviewed content to ensure there is no
bias.

Content will not include any discussion of the unlabeled use of a product or a
product under investigational use with the exception of Drs. Gershman and
Staples discussion of the ACIP recommendations as these relate to those
recommendations varying slight from the detailed YF-VAX package insert. Also
the content experts provide information on the FDA- approved temporary use of
Stamaril, an unlicensed yellow fever vaccine, under an expanded access IND
program, while the only licensed vaccine, YF-VAX, is not available in the U.S.

CDC did not accept commercial support for this continuing education activity.

Origin Date: 09/06/2019

Expiration Date: 09/06/2021

**Minimum System Requirements**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Windows® 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Processor - Core i5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Memory - 4 GB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Hard Drive - 250 GB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Broadband Internet connection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adobe Reader version 11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * JavaScript enabled
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Popup blocker disabled

* * *

Page last reviewed: September 06, 2019

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

