

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

### Be Safe Around Animals

![dog](/travel/images/dog.jpg)

Animals can be cute, and you may want to pet them, but any animal, even if it
appears to be friendly or harmless, can be dangerous. Any animal can bite,
scratch, kick, or otherwise injure you, even if you did nothing to provoke it.
Animals are often frightened of humans or trying to protect their territory or
their young, so stay away from all animals. Some diseases can cause an animal
to behave aggressively toward people, even if it had previously been friendly.
Never try to pet, handle, or feed unfamiliar animals, even petsas they may not
be vaccinated against rabies and other diseases.

#### If You Are Bitten or Scratched

Immediately wash the wound with plenty of soap and water, and see a doctor as
soon as possible. Rabies is spread by the saliva of an infected animal. It is
almost always fatal if an exposed person is not promptly given rabies shots.
In some countries, the treatment needed after a bite may not be available.
Medical evacuation insurance will cover the cost of a flight to a place where
you can get the best care. The only way to prevent rabies (other than
vaccination) is to avoid being bitten, scratched, or licked by any animal.

In many countries, the risk of rabies is similar to the United States,
including most of Europe, Japan, Canada, and Australia. However, in many other
parts of the world, rabies in dogs is still a problem, and access to
preventive treatment may be hard. These areas include much of Africa, Asia,
Central America, and South America. If traveling to a country where there is
an increased risk of rabies, especially in dogs, rabies vaccination may be
recommended before your trip. Your healthcare provider may recommend rabies
vaccine, particularly if you fall into the following groups:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * People staying a long time in a high-risk area.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * People involved in outdoor activities, such as camping or caving, where they might come into contact with animals, such as bats.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * People whose jobs will put them at risk (such as veterinarians or wildlife personnel).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Some children (they tend to play with animals and so are at higher risk).

![cat](/travel/images/cat.jpg)

**Even if you have been vaccinated against rabies, you still must get
treatment as soon as possible if you are exposed to an animal that might have
rabies.** Pre-exposure vaccination will simplify your treatment after being
bitten, and it may buy you more time to seek care, but it doesn't eliminate
the need to be treated.

**In addition to the risk of rabies, all animal bites carry a risk of
bacterial infection. Atetanus vaccination is also recommended, if you haven't
recently had one.**

**If you become ill during or after your trip, and you came into contact with
an animal while traveling, make sure to tell your health care provider about
your contact with animals.**

### Dogs and Cats

The main threat from dogs and cats is rabies. Rabies is spread in the saliva
of an infected animal, so the only way to prevent it (other than vaccination)
is to avoid being bitten, scratched, or licked by any animal. Although any
mammal can get rabies, dogs are responsible for most rabies deaths.

### Monkeys and Apes

Monkeys can spread rabies, and they can also transmit serious infections such
as Ebola and similar viruses, herpes B virus, and tuberculosis. If you are
traveling to places where monkeys roam wild, such as some temples in Southeast
Asia, never touch or feed monkeys. They can also be aggressive if they smell
food in your pockets or bags, so don't bring food with you.

### Bats

![bats](/travel/images/bats.jpg)

Bats often have rabies, and they don't just live in caves--they could find
their way into your place of lodging. **If you find a bat in your room after
you wake up, you should consult with a trusted health authority to discuss
your risk of rabies.**

Because bat bites are small, you may not notice being bitten. Some people
trivialize bat bites because they are small and don't cause much discomfort.
Don't make this mistake! Always seek medical advice if you've been bitten by a
bat or even if you've think you may have been bitten by one.

Bats also can spread diseases such as histoplasmosis and Marburg fever. Stay
away from caves or mines where there are a lot of bats. Rabies vaccine may be
recommended for people who will be exploring caves.

### Rodents

Rodents, such as rats and mice, can spread many diseases through bites and
scratches, urine, feces, or fleas. These diseases include plague,
leptospirosis, hantavirus disease, and rickettsial disease. Avoid places that
look like they may be infested with rodents and do not touch anything that may
be contaminated with rodent urine or feces.

* * *

Page last reviewed: October 31, 2017

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

