

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Syndicate

### Avian Flu (Bird Flu)

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * What is avian flu (bird flu)?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Who is at risk?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * What can travelers do to prevent avian flu?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Traveler Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Clinician Information

### What is avian flu (bird flu)?

Avian flu (sometimes called bird flu) is a respiratory disease that usually
infects birds, not people. There are different types of avian flu, such as
H5N1 and H7N9. People rarely get bird flu, but when they do it usually happens
after contact with infected birds (such as chickens, turkeys, geese, pigeons,
and pheasants). Human illness from avian flu has ranged from mild eye
infections and flu-like symptoms to pneumonia and death.

### Who is at risk?

The risk of bird flu to travelers is extremely low.  People who come in
contact with live poultry may be at higher risk. H5N1 bird flu is widespread
in poultry and wild birds in several countries in Asia and the Middle East.
Outbreaks with H5N1 bird flu also have been reported in Europe and Africa.
H7N9 bird flu has been found in China. See the CDC Avian Flu website for more
information on bird flu in specific countries.

### What can travelers do to prevent avian flu?

There is no vaccine to prevent avian flu. (However, there is a vaccine for the
strains of flu virus that are commonly seen in humans.) While you are
traveling in countries affected by bird flu, you should avoid contact with
poultry and all birds.

#### Do not touch birds or other animals:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Do not touch animals whether they are alive or dead.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Avoid live bird or poultry markets.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Avoid other markets or farms with animals (wet markets).

#### Eat food that is fully cooked:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Eat meat and poultry that is fully cooked (not pink) and served hot.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Eat hard-cooked eggs (not runny).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * **Don 't** eat or drink dishes that include blood from any animal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * **Don 't** eat food from street vendors.

#### Practice hygiene and cleanliness:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Wash your hands often.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * If soap and water aren't available, clean hands with hand sanitizer (containing at least 60% alcohol).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Don't touch your eyes, nose, or mouth. If you need to touch your face, make sure your hands are clean.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or your sleeve (not your hands) when coughing or sneezing.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Try to avoid close contact, such as kissing, hugging or sharing eating utensils or cups with people who are sick.

#### If you feel sick and think you may have avian flu:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Talk to your doctor or nurse if you feel seriously ill, especially if you have a fever. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tell them about your travel.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * For more information about medical care abroad, see Getting Health Care Abroad and a list of International Joint Commission-accredited facilities.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Avoid contact with other people while you are sick.

### Traveler Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC Avian Influenza Homepage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevention Information

### Clinician Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC Avian Influenza Homepage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * H5N1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * H7N9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Diagnosing Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Healthcare Professional Guidance

* * *

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Disease Directory (41)expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Avian Flu (Bird Flu)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

