

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Syndicate

### Visiting Friends or Relatives in a Foreign Country

Heading Home Healthy

People who are traveling to a foreign country to visit friends or relatives
(called "VFR travelers" by some professionals) are at higher risk for some
diseases. The risk is higher because VFR travelers generally stay longer than
tourists, eat local food in people's homes, and may not take the same
precautions (such as preventing bug bites) as tourists do. VFR travelers often
do not see a doctor for vaccines and advice before they travel, possibly
because of cost, cultural or language barriers, or limited time. If you are
planning to travel overseas to visit friends or relatives, consider your
increased risk of illnesses and plan accordingly.

### Malaria

VFR travelers are 8-10 times as likely to be infected with malaria as
tourists, and in recent years, several VFR travelers have died of malaria
after they returned to the United States. Many VFR travelers assume they are
immune to malaria if they were born or lived a long time in a country with
malaria, but any immunity disappears quickly after a person moves away. If you
are going to a country with malaria, take malaria-prevention medicine
according to your doctor's instructions, even if your friends and relatives
who still live in the country do not.

![Family](/travel/images/vfr-family-wafrica.jpg)

VFR travelers may think they can buy malaria medicine or other medicine more
cheaply in the country they are visiting. However, you need to start taking
malaria pills before you leave the United States in order to be protected. In
addition, any medicine you buy outside the United States may be counterfeit--
it may not have any active ingredients, or it may contain harmful substances.
It's often impossible to tell real and counterfeit medicines apart, so bring
all your medicine from the United States.

### Foodborne Illness

![boats](/travel/images/boats.png)

Illnesses spread through contaminated food are common in VFR travelers, who
often feel pressure to eat what they are served by family or friends. VFR
travelers also do not have the same immunity to local bacteria as their
friends and relatives do. Some foodborne illnesses, such as hepatitis A and
typhoid, can be prevented with vaccines, but many others cannot. See a doctor
before you travel to get any vaccines you may need, but also be very careful
about what you eat and drink. In general, food that is cooked and served hot
is safe to eat, and beverages from sealed containers are safe to drink. Avoid
food served at room temperature, raw fruits or vegetables (unless they can be
peeled), tap water, and ice made from tap water.

### Other Illnesses

Other health considerations for VFR travelers include dengue and other
infections spread by mosquitoes as well as parasites in water, tuberculosis,
and sexually transmitted diseases. Before your trip, consult a travel medicine
specialist who can give you customized advice on staying safe and healthy at
your destination. At this consultation, you may be advised to use insect
repellent, avoid swimming in fresh water, and take other steps to help you
enjoy your visit without worrying about getting sick or injured.

### More Information

Malaria  
Travelers' Diarrhea  
Immigrants Returning Home to Visit Friends and Relatives (VFRs)

* * *

Page last reviewed: September 09, 2016

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

