Link: https://medlineplus.gov/diabetes.html    
                                Description: Learn about symptoms, causes, tests and treatment for diabetes, the disease in which blood sugar levels are too high. Includes type 1 and type 2 diabetes.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Diabetes

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/diabetes.html

#  Diabetes

Also called: Diabetes mellitus, DM

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Diagnosis and Tests
  * Prevention and Risk Factors
  * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

  * Living With
  * Related Issues
  * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

  * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

  * Statistics and Research
  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Reference Desk
  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Men
  * Women
  * Older Adults
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Diabetes is a disease in which your blood glucose, or blood sugar, levels are
too high. Glucose comes from the foods you eat. Insulin is a hormone that
helps the glucose get into your cells to give them energy. With type 1
diabetes, your body does not make insulin. With type 2 diabetes, the more
common type, your body does not make or use insulin well. Without enough
insulin, the glucose stays in your blood. You can also have prediabetes. This
means that your blood sugar is higher than normal but not high enough to be
called diabetes. Having prediabetes puts you at a higher risk of getting type
2 diabetes.

Over time, having too much glucose in your blood can cause serious problems.
It can damage your eyes, kidneys, and nerves. Diabetes can also cause heart
disease, stroke and even the need to remove a limb. Pregnant women can also
get diabetes, called gestational diabetes.

Blood tests can show if you have diabetes. One type of test, the A1C, can also
check on how you are managing your diabetes. Exercise, weight control and
sticking to your meal plan can help control your diabetes. You should also
monitor your blood glucose level and take medicine if prescribed.

NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Start Here

  * Diabetes (American Academy of Family Physicians)
  * Managing Diabetes ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Diabetes Education Program) Also in Spanish
  * Types of Diabetes ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * A1C: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Blood Glucose Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Diabetes Tests & Diagnosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
  * Glucose in Urine Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Ketones in Blood ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Ketones in Urine ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Microalbumin Test (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

  * How to Prevent Diabetes: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

  * Diabetes Medicines: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Living With

  * 21 Tips for Traveling with Diabetes (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
  * Changing Your Habits: Steps to Better Health ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) \- PDF
  * Diabetic Diet: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * DKA (Ketoacidosis) and Ketones (American Diabetes Association)
  * Get to Know Your Diabetes Care Team (American Diabetes Association)
  * Healthy Coping (American Association of Diabetes Educators)
  * Managing Diabetes: New Technologies Can Make It Easier ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
  * Monitoring (American Association of Diabetes Educators)
  * Prepare for Diabetes Care in Heat and Emergencies (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Understanding Diabetes and Mental Health (American Diabetes Association)

## Related Issues

  * Causes of Diabetes ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
  * Diabetes Diet, Eating, and Physical Activity ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
  * Food Safety for People with Diabetes (Food and Drug Administration) \- PDF
  * Is Hyperinsulinemia a Form of Diabetes? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * People at High Risk for Flu Complications (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Prediabetes:MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Speak Up -- Diabetes: Five Ways to Be Active in Your Care at the Hospital (Joint Commission) \- PDF Also in Spanish
  * The A1C Test and Race/Ethnicity ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
  * Vaccinations for Adults with Diabetes (Immunization Action Coalition) \- PDF

## Genetics

  * Genetics Home Reference: 17q12 deletion syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: 6q24-related transient neonatal diabetes mellitus ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: congenital generalized lipodystrophy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: familial partial lipodystrophy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: maternally inherited diabetes and deafness ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: Rabson-Mendenhall syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: thiamine-responsive megaloblastic anemia syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: type A insulin resistance syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: Wolfram syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Learn the Genetics of Diabetes (American Diabetes Association)
  * Monogenic Forms of Diabetes: Neonatal Diabetes Mellitus and Maturity-Onset Diabetes of the Young ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Diabetes Information Clearinghouse, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Videos and Tutorials

  * Diabetes Movie (For Parents) ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Nemours Foundation)

## Statistics and Research

  * Diabetes in America, 3rd Edition (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
  * Diabetes Interactive Atlas (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * FastStats: Diabetes (National Center for Health Statistics)
  * Native Americans with Diabetes (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
  * Recent Advances (in Diabetes Research) (American Diabetes Association)
  * Tuberculosis and Diabetes (World Health Organization) \- PDF

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Diabetes Mellitus ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: History of diabetes may delay antibiotic administration in patients with severe...
  * Article: Combined effect of serum alanine aminotransferase and gamma-glutamyltransferase on incidence of...
  * Article: Diabetes mellitus as a risk factor for retinal vein occlusion: A...
  * Diabetes -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

  * Common Terms (American Diabetes Association)
  * Diabetes: Glossary of Terms (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Find an Expert

  * American Diabetes Association
  * Find a Diabetes Educator (American Association of Diabetes Educators)
  * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
  * NIDDK Information Clearinghouses and Health Information Center ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Men

  * Men (American Diabetes Association)

## Women

  * Diabetes Fact Sheet (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish

## Older Adults

  * Diabetes in Older People ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging) Also in Spanish
  * Diabetes: Unique to Older Adults (AGS Foundation for Health in Aging)

## Patient Handouts

  * A1C test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Blood sugar test - blood (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Diabetes (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Diabetes - keeping active (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Diabetes - low blood sugar - self-care (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Diabetes - tests and checkups (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Diabetes - when you are sick (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Diabetes and exercise (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Diabetes myths and facts (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Giving an insulin injection (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * High blood sugar - self-care (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Diabetes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Diabetes.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * A1C test
  * ACE blood test
  * Anti-insulin antibody test
  * Blood sugar test - blood
  * Diabetes
  * Diabetes - keeping active
  * Diabetes - low blood sugar - self-care
  * Diabetes - tests and checkups
  * Diabetes - when you are sick
  * Diabetes and exercise

  * Diabetes myths and facts
  * Giving an insulin injection
  * Glucose tolerance test - non-pregnant
  * Glucose urine test
  * High blood sugar - self-care
  * Immunizations - diabetes
  * Insulin C-peptide
  * Ketones urine test
  * Lactic acidosis
  * Preparing for surgery when you have diabetes
  * Serum ketones test

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

  * A1C
  * Blood Sugar
  * Diabetes and Pregnancy
  * Diabetes Complications
  * Diabetes in Children and Teens
  * Diabetes Medicines
  * Diabetes Type 1
  * Diabetes Type 2
  * Diabetic Diet
  * Diabetic Eye Problems
  * Diabetic Foot
  * Diabetic Heart Disease
  * Diabetic Kidney Problems
  * Diabetic Nerve Problems
  * Hyperglycemia
  * Hypoglycemia
  * Islet Cell Transplantation
  * Pancreas Transplantation
  * Prediabetes

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Diabetes is the National
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Diabetes_

## NIH MedlinePlus Magazine

  * What Is Diabetes?

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 2 January 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

