

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

### Travel Insurance: Peace of Mind While You Travel

![insurance claim form](/travel/images/claim-form.jpg)

**If you are planning an international trip, you should consider getting
travel insurance to cover yourself against accidents or illness while you 're
abroad. Even if you already have medical insurance back home, it may not cover
you when traveling outside the United States, or if it does cover you that
coverage may not be enough.**

There are 3 types of insurance you should consider: trip cancellation
insurance, travel health insurance, and medical evacuation insurance. These
will cover different situations and may give you financial peace of mind, as
well as allowing for safe and healthy travel.

### Trip Cancellation Insurance

Trip cancellation insurance covers your financial investment in your trip,
such as flights, cruises, or train tickets. Carefully examine the policy to
make sure that it covers what you need it to cover, including cancellation if
you or a close family member gets sick. Depending on the policy, trip
cancellation insurance might not cover any medical care you need overseas, so
you may need a separate travel health insurance policy.

Trip cancellation insurance might help ensure you are able to make a last-
minute cancellation or change your itinerary in the event of an international
outbreak, such as the current outbreak of Zika. Be sure to check the fine
print to see if your coverage includes disease outbreaks at intended travel
destinations and what any restrictions might be.

### Travel Health Insurance

If you need to go to a hospital or clinic overseas, you will probably be asked
to pay out-of-pocket for any services, which could be very expensive. Even if
a country has nationalized health care, it may not cover people who are not
citizens. Before you go, you should consider your insurance options in case
you need care while you're abroad, especially if you have existing health
conditions, will be away from home for a long time, or will be engaging in
adventure activities such as scuba diving or hang gliding.

If you have health insurance in the United States, find out if it will cover
emergencies that happen abroad. Ask if your policy has any exclusions, such as
for preexisting conditions or adventure activities. If your health insurance
coverage is not adequate, consider buying a short-term supplemental policy.
Look for a policy that will make payments to hospitals directly.

![evacuation helicopter](/travel/images/helicopter-evac.jpg)

Medical evacuation insurance covers emergency transportation from a remote
area to a high-quality hospital.

### Medical Evacuation Insurance

If you are traveling to a remote destination or to a place where care is not
likely to be up to US standards, consider buying medical evacuation insurance.
This can be bought separately or as part of your travel health insurance
policy. This insurance will pay for emergency transportation from a remote or
poor area to a high-quality hospital - which could otherwise cost more than
$100,000. Make sure that the policy provides a 24-hour physician support
center.

### More Information

This list is not all-inclusive, but these resources provide information about
getting travel health and medical evacuation insurance:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Department of State
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * International SOS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MEDEX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * International Association for Medical Assistance to Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * American Association of Retired Persons

* * *

Page last reviewed: March 26, 2019

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

