

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate

### Hepatitis B

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What is hepatitis B?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Who is at risk?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What can travelers do to prevent disease?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Traveler Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Clinician Information

### What is hepatitis B?

Hepatitis B is a contagious virus that is transmitted through blood, blood
products, and other body fluids (such as semen). Travelers can become infected
through unprotected sex with an infected person, injection drug use, and
transfusions with unscreened blood.

Symptoms include a sudden fever, tiredness, loss of appetite, nausea,
vomiting, stomach pain, dark urine, joint pain, and yellowing of the skin and
eyes (jaundice). Symptoms may last from several weeks to several months. Some
people who get hepatitis B develop lifelong (chronic) hepatitis B. This can
cause people to die early from liver disease and liver cancer.

### Who is at risk?

![woman getting vaccination](/travel/images/vaccine-injection.jpg)

Hepatitis B is most common in some countries in Asia, Africa, South America
and the Caribbean (see map). However, it occurs in nearly every part of the
world. The risk to most travelers is low, but travelers could become infected
if they have sex with an infected person, receive a transfusion of unscreened
blood, have medical or dental procedures, get tattoos or piercings or receive
acupuncture with needles that are not sterile.  

### What can travelers do to prevent disease?

#### Get hepatitis B vaccine:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Ask your doctor or nurse about hepatitis B vaccine. The vaccine is recommended for extended stay travelers, people with chronic conditions, older people, healthcare workers, and people who participate in high-risk activities (such as injection drug use and unprotected sex). Other travelers may consider the vaccine, especially since some countries may not screen their blood supply, and travelers could become infected by a blood transfusion.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * This vaccine is a 3 dose vaccine. The second vaccine is given 1 month after the first dose and the third dose is given 6 months after the first dose. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Talk to your doctor about accelerated dosing and the combination vaccine with hepatitis A.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Routine booster doses are not routinely recommended for any age group.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The vaccine is over 90% effective, and has been considered a routine childhood vaccine since 1995.

#### Protect yourself:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Use latex condoms correctly.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Do not inject drugs.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Limit alcohol consumption. People take more risks when intoxicated.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Do not share needles or any devices that can break the skin. That includes needles for tattoos, piercings, and acupuncture. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * If you do get tattoos or piercings, make sure equipment is sterile.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * If you receive medical or dental care, make sure the equipment is disinfected or sanitized.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * For more information see: STD information.

#### Consider medical evacuation insurance:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * An injury or illness that requires invasive medical or dental treatment (e.g. injection, IV drip, transfusion, stitching) could result in hepatitis B infection if the blood supply is not properly screened.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Medical evacuation insurance may cover the cost to transfer you to the nearest destination where you can get complete care. Some policies may cover your eventual return to your home country. For more information see: Insurance.

#### If you feel sick and think you may have hepatitis B:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Talk to your doctor or nurse if you feel seriously ill, especially if you have a fever. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tell them about your travel.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * For more information about medical care abroad, see Getting Health Care Abroad and a list of International Joint Commission-accredited facilities.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Take medicine to control your fever and reduce your pain. Take medicine that contains aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil), or naproxen (Aleve). Do **NOT** take acetaminophen (Tylenol).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Avoid contact with other people while you are sick.

### Traveler Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Hepatitis B website
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Hepatitis B factsheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Vaccine Information Statement (VIS)

### Clinician Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Hepatitis B in _CDC Health Information for International Travel 201_ 2-"Yellow Book"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Hep B Vaccine Administration for Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Hep B Vaccine Administration for Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Hepatitis B serology interpretation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Hepatitis B: Standard Notifiable Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Hepatitis B Case Definition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Hepatitis B website
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Hepatitis B in _Epidemiology and Prevention of Vaccine-Preventable Diseases_ "Pink Book"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Vaccine Information Statement (VIS)

* * *

Page last reviewed: March 09, 2016

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Disease Directory (41)expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Hepatitis B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

