

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Syndicate

### With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky

![Phyllis Kozarsky](/travel/images/kozarsky.jpg)

**Phyllis E. Kozarsky, MD,** is the longest serving member of the Travelers'
Health Branch at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). More
than 25 years ago, she came to the branch, bringing with her extensive
experience in travel medicine and infectious diseases. Over the years, Phyllis
has helped elevate the quality of the work performed by branch
epidemio­logists, public health advisors, medical officers, and communicators
thanks to her generously shared clinical insight. Phyllis has also served as
an editor of CDC's _Yellow Book_ since 1999. ** _Yellow Book 2020_** will be
her final one as Chief Medical Editor, and it is to her great legacy and
contribution to travel medicine that we gratefully and fondly dedicate this
edition.



It is difficult to imagine the field of travel medicine without Phyllis
Kozarsky. A wealth of knowledge and critical judgment in all areas of travel
medicine--she really is one of the best in the world--Phyllis is remarkably
humble and naturally reticent by nature, qualities that have prevented many of
the members of our community from fully appreciating the key role she has
played in developing this specialty. In 1991, after helping to create the
International Society of Travel Medicine (ISTM), she then managed the
organization for several years until it gained its footing. She was also
instrumental in creating ISTM's Certificate of Travel Health exam. An
infectious disease specialist, Phyllis started and ran the travel medicine
clinic at Emory University in Atlanta, while simultaneously serving as a
stable and knowledgeable presence in the travel medicine section of the CDC.

**David R. Shlim, MD**



When I think of Phyllis Kozarsky, it is her big beautiful smile and her
willingness to pitch in and work as part of a team to solve problems that
first come to mind.

Phyllis shaped travel medicine as it exists today. Masterful in bringing
evidence to practice and policy, she led efforts to define a core body of
knowledge for the specialty. She then developed the examination that awards
clinicians who pass it, a certificate recognizing their expertise, according
to internationally established standards. She has provided crucial support to
the GeoSentinel surveillance network and the Global TravEpiNet (GTEN)
consortium, and translated the data each provides into sensible guidance for
travel medicine practitioners. Her many experiences--as a professor in an
academic institution, as an expert consultant in CDC's Division of Global
Migration and Quarantine, and her work with industry--have provided Phyllis
with the multiple perspectives she uses to develop her sound, workable
recommendations.

Practical, pragmatic, resourceful, deeply knowledgeable, and highly connected
to colleagues throughout the world, Phyllis has a deft touch when dealing with
controversial and complicated issues. Her many publications include guidelines
and useful advice for common as well as emerging problems, including Zika and
Ebola. She has written about vulnerable populations and business and corporate
travelers. She has communicated information to the public through interviews
and other media outlets, and as Chief Medical Editor for multiple editions of
the _Yellow Book_ , Phyllis has reached the global community of travel
medicine practitioners.

**Mary E. Wilson, MD**



A clade of scholars currently focuses on virtual or counterfactual history. So
let us ask, hypothetically, "What if in the late 1980's there would have been
no Phyllis Kozarsky at Emory University to collaborate mainly with the CDC in
the project for the 1991 Atlanta Travel Medicine Conference?" The simple
answer is that there would have been no meeting, and the International Society
of Travel Medicine (ISTM) would not have been founded!

Over the decades, Phyllis has continued to contribute as a top leader in
crucial projects whenever needed, forging compromises and building bridges. On
the surface, soft as velvet, but--when necessary--convincing colleagues with
hard facts and her little smile, up to the final success. Phyllis has been one
of the main travel medicine achievers in many functions both inside and
outside the CDC and the ISTM.

**Robert Steffen, MD**



Few others in my experience have Phyllis Kozarsky's common sense and wisdom,
two of her strongest personal qualities. Wise beyond her years, she is also a
caretaker: a compassionate, thoughtful and nurturing individual, always
sensitive to the needs of others, an excellent team player and peacemaker. She
has never sought the limelight in terms of her work with ISTM, preferring
instead to be in the background, letting others take credit even when she was
very much involved in the work and its accomplishments. She preferred to be,
as I saw it, 'the power behind the throne.' She has carved out her many
successes with a quiet determination.

Phyllis is a remarkably bright, innovative leader in the field of travel
medicine. A visionary, not a follower, her accomplishments are a testament to
her desire to make the world a better place. Her tremendous interpersonal
skills have made her an effective, innovative leader in the field of travel
medicine and a beloved friend.

**Jay S. Keystone, MD**



Phyllis Kozarsky has played a critical role in defining, nurturing, and
holding to high standards the field of travel medicine. Her depth of expertise
is unsurpassed, but more importantly, she has been amazingly adept at linking
the fields of clinical medicine and public health. She has facilitated
countless connections, bringing together disparate groups, topics, and
nations. With regard to CDC's _Yellow Book_ , Phyllis' input has ensured it
has remained the authoritative travel medicine reference, enabling countless
providers to render outstanding care and advice. We will miss her knowledge,
counsel, wit and graciousness as she steps down as Chief Medical Editor.

**Edward T. Ryan, MD**



I have known my friend and colleague Dr. Phyllis Kozarsky for over 25 years
and I cannot think of a single person who has had as much influence on the
field of travel medicine as she has. An advocate for public and professional
education in travel medicine, Phyllis was a founding member of the
International Society of Travel Medicine (ISTM), served as its first Secretary
Treasurer, and organized its first conference in 1991; she chaired its first
Professional Education Committee and created the ISTM Certification
Examination. She has also served as editor of the premier textbook in travel
medicine. Her accomplishments--clinical, educational and organizational--set
her apart from virtually everyone else in the field. And matched by her
accomplishments and intelligence (perhaps even exceeding them) are her warmth,
compassion and generosity of spirt, her kindness, empathy and true respect of
others.

**Bradley A. Connor, MD**



The CDC _Yellow Book_ first appeared in 1967. Originally a thin pamphlet, it
presented to readers some specific provisions of the International Health
Regulations.

For the last 11 editions (over the past 20 years), Phyllis Kozarsky has guided
the transformation of the _Yellow Book_ into the comprehensive travel medicine
reference by which all other sources of travel medicine information are now
judged. Its guidelines and recommendations articulate the evidence-base in the
US-context as determined by the CDC and its various advisory bodies. And while
a number of other national and international resources are available,
experienced clinicians outside the United States continue to refer to the
_Yellow Book_ as a mandatory pillar of consultation for all matters of
clinical decision support to safeguard the health of their travelers.

Phyllis, who directed her own travel clinic at Emory University where she had
an enviable publication record as a Professor of Medicine, has been steadfast
in ensuring that the _Yellow Book_ be written primarily for practicing
clinicians. Over the years, she assembled a cadre of expert co-editors and
contributors from outside the agency (mainly experts from GeoSentinel and
ISTM) who themselves had day-to-day experience in the practice of travel
medicine, helping make each edition come to life.

Phyllis' vision and soft-spoken subject-matter mastery--combined with her
dogged diligence up until the last possible publication deadline--has allowed
her to bring together experts from inside and outside the CDC. Experts who
craft language that provides readers with a comprehensive understanding of a
topic, and a best-possible, very practical solution to any clinical scenario
that might walk into the travel clinic. The qualifications for Phyllis'
successor should simply include the attributes mentioned in this dedication
piece; one should ask for no more and no less.

**David O. Freedman, MD**

* * *

Page last reviewed: July 19, 2019

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

