

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

#  Chapter 1 Introduction

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Chapter 1 - Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Chapter 2 - The Pretravel Consultation

## _Perspectives_ : Why Guidelines Differ

David R.â¯Shlim

### INTRODUCTION

Numerous international, national, and professional organizations publish
guidelines and recommendations for travelers, including the CDC Yellow Book.
Travel health providers should be aware of these recommendations, even though
they may not follow them in every instance. This way they can explain to their
patients how their recommendations, and their patients' choices, may be at
odds with what others recommend. It can be unsettling for patients to receive
travel medicine advice, vaccines, or an antimalarial drug prescription from a
provider, only to find that what has been advised or prescribed is
contradicted by what other professionals, friends, or destination-country
nationals have to say. The skillful travel health provider will be able to
help the traveler reconcile seemingly conflicting advice.

### HOW GUIDELINES ARE CREATED

In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approves
standards for how to use a vaccine or medication, including dosages, ages for
which the product is approved, and booster recommendations. Recommendations
about when to use a product may come from a separate body, such as the
Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP). To give ACIP the best
possible information on which to base their recommendations, working groups of
experts may hold meetings to review the literature and new studies. CDC Yellow
Book travel advice will always be compatible with ACIP recommendations but
may, on occasion, offer country- and situation-specific guidelines for
vaccineâ¯use.

International organizations such as the World Health Organization (WHO) and
national committees of other countries, as well as medical organizations such
as the International Society of Travel Medicine (ISTM) or the Infectious
Diseases Society of America, may each promote their own sets of guidance.
Other professional organizations may create consensus clinical practice
guidelines based on published medical literature and expert opinion. Travel
medicine-specific paid subscription services employ travel medicine experts to
organize and present guidelines for health care providers who see
international travelers in their practice but who may lack expertise in the
subject. Guidance provided about vaccines and malaria prophylaxis can differ
from CDC advice.

Guidelines put forward by different countries and organizations may differ in
substantial ways. Reasons for this include differing licensure and
availability of products, cultural perceptions of risk, lack of definitive
evidence, and differences of opinion among experts.

#### Availability of Products

Travel health providers can only use the products available to them.
Availability is determined by the regulatory approval status of the product
and, to a lesser extent, the marketing and distribution plan of the
manufacturer. Regulatory approval processes vary greatly by country. For
example, registering a new vaccine or antimalarial drug in the United States
is a costly and rigorous process. If the market in a particular country is
insufficient to justify the expense of registration, a commercial company may
not seekâ¯it.

Standards for licensure also vary. What may be sufficient for one regulatory
authority may not suffice for another. For example, primaquine, an option for
malaria prophylaxis in the United States, is not registered or commercially
available in Switzerland. Atovaquone-proguanil was available for malaria
prophylaxis in the United States before many other countries. Four Japanese
encephalitis vaccines are available in the world, but only 1 is licensed in
the United States.

Even when the same products are available, recommendations for use may not be
the same in all countries. The injectable capsular polysaccharide typhoid
vaccine and the oral typhoid vaccine are examples. In the United States, a
booster of the polysaccharide vaccine is recommended after 2 years, but in
most European countries, a booster is recommended after 3 years. In the United
States, a packet of 4 oral typhoid vaccine capsules is dispensed, whereas in
Europe, 3 doses are considered adequate. The regulatory agencies may have
reviewed the same data and drawn different conclusions, or they may have
reviewed different data at separate times. Regulatory submissions to various
agencies rarely occur at the same time; therefore, the data available for
review by each agency may not be the same, for legitimate reasons.

#### Perception of Risk

People from varying backgrounds can view the same risk data and come to very
different conclusions as to the cost and benefit of minimizing that risk to
what they consider to be an acceptable level. For example, recommendations to
prevent malaria during travel to India vary widely. Germany does not recommend
using standard prophylaxis for any travel to an Indian destination; standby
emergency treatment (SBET) or self-treatment only is the recommendation for
identified risk destinations. Guidelines from the United Kingdom recommend
only awareness and mosquito bite prevention for more than half the Indian
subcontinent, including large cities and popular tourist destinations in the
north and south, while suggesting prophylaxis consideration for some travelers
or for those visiting higher-risk areas. By contrast, CDC recommends malaria
prophylaxis for any Indian destination (except for some mountainous areas of
northern states) for all travelers.

#### Lack of Evidence

In many cases, limited or no data are available to inform an evidence-based
assessment. Travel health providers must then defer to expert opinion or
extrapolate from limited data in conjunction with expert opinion. In travel
medicine, it is rare to have numerator and denominator data on the risk of any
disease. For example, any new data on the risk of hepatitis A in travelers
would have to account for the high immunization rate with hepatitis A vaccine.
Because such data are rarely available, travel health providers often rely on
historical data that captured few actualâ¯cases.

### CAN WE HARMONIZE GUIDELINES?

The complex nature of how health organizations obtain, evaluate, and verify
data, combined with fundamental differences in risk perception, makes it
likely that multiple, overlapping, and at times conflicting guidelines will
continue to exist. However, conflicting guidelines have decreased in the past
decade due to the efforts of several organizations. A recent example has been
the collaboration among the WHO, US CDC, and the European Centre for Disease
Prevention and Control (ECDC) to develop consistency and clarity in defining
the risk of Zika infection for travelers so that providers can more clearly
relay traveler risk, particularly to those who are pregnant or planning
pregnancy.

In summary, the role of the travel health provider is to understand the
various differences in guidelines, interpret this information, and convey
tailored and informed advice in an assured and comforting manner to travelers.

### BIBLIOGRAPHY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1. CDC. Malaria surveillance--United States, 2015. MMWR Surveill Summ. 2018 May 4;67(7):1-28.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2. CDC. Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP). Atlanta: CDC; 2018 [cited 2018 Sep 12]. Available from: www.cdc.gov/vaccines/acip/.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3. Chiodini PL, Field VK, Whitty CJM, Lalloo DG. Guidelines for malaria prevention in travellers from the UK: 2017. London: Public Health England; 2017 [cited 2018 Sep 12]. Available from: https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/660051/Guidelines_for_malaria_prevention_in_travellers_from_the_UK_2017.pdf.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4. Committee to Advise on Tropical Medicine and Travel (CATMAT). Canadian recommendations for the prevention and treatment of malaria. Ottawa: Public Health Agency of Canada; 2014 [cited 2018 Sep 12]. Available from: http://publications.gc.ca/collections/collection_2014/aspc-phac/HP40-102-2014-eng.pdf.  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5. German Society for Tropical Medicine and International Health Association (DTG). [Recommendations for the prophylaxis and treatment of malaria of DTG 2018]. 2018 [cited 2018 Sep 12]. Available from: www.dtg.org/empfehlungen-und-leitlinien/empfehlungen/malaria.html.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6. Hill DR, Ericsson CD, Pearson RD, Keystone JS, Freedman DO, Kozarsky PE, et al. The practice of travel medicine: guidelines by the Infectious Diseases Society of America. Clin Infect Dis. 2006 Dec 15;43(12):1499-539.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7. World Health Organization. International Health Regulations (2005). Geneva: World Health Organization; 2016 [cited 2018 Sep 12]. Available from: www.who.int/ihr/publications/9789241580496/en.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              8. World Health Organization. International Travel and Health. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2012 (with 2016 updates) [cited 2016 June 14]. Available from: www.who.int/ith/en/.



Perspectives sections are editorial discussions written to add depth and
clinical perspective to the official recommendations contained in the book.
The views and opinions expressed in this section are those of the authors and
do not necessarily represent the official position ofâ¯CDC.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Chapter 1 - Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Chapter 2 - The Pretravel Consultation

* * *

Page last reviewed: June 21, 2019

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

