

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate

### Hepatitis C

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What is hepatitis C?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Who is at risk?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * What can travelers do to prevent hepatitis C?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Traveler Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Clinician Information

### What is hepatitis C?

Hepatitis C is a contagious disease that causes liver damage. Hepatitis C is
usually spread by blood contact. Rarely, it can be spread by sexual contact.

Hepatitis C can be a short-term (acute) illness; however, for most people
acute infection leads to long-term (chronic) infection which is a serious
disease than can result in death. Many people who get the hepatitis C virus
have no symptoms at first. Those who do have symptoms may have appetite loss,
stomach pain, tiredness, nausea, dark urine, or yellowing of the skin and eyes
(jaundice). Even if they don't have initial symptoms, most people who are
infected develop long-term illness that can result in serious liver disease,
such as scarring and other damage to the liver (cirrhosis), liver failure, or
liver cancer.

### Who is at risk?

Hepatitis C is most common in some countries in Asia and Africa, but it occurs
in nearly every part of the world (See Map 3-05). The risk to most travelers
is low, but travelers could become infected if they receive a transfusion of
unscreened blood, have medical or dental procedures in a developing country,
get tattoos or piercings or receive acupuncture with needles that are not
sterile, or have sex with an infected person.

### What can travelers do to prevent hepatitis C?

There is currently no vaccine to prevent hepatitis C. Travelers can protect
themselves by following these steps:

#### Protect yourself:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Use latex condoms correctly.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Do not inject drugs.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Limit alcohol consumption. People take more risks when intoxicated.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Do not share needles or any devices that can break the skin. That includes needles for tattoos, piercings, and acupuncture. If you do get tattoos, piercings or acupuncture in another country make sure the equipment used is sterile.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * If you receive medical or dental care, make sure the equipment is disinfected or sanitized.

#### Consider medical evacuation insurance:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * An injury or illness that requires invasive medical or dental treatment (e.g., injection, IV drip, transfusion, stitching) could result in hepatitis C infection if the blood supply is not properly screened.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Medical evacuation insurance may cover the cost to transfer you to the nearest destination where complete care can be obtained. Some policies may cover your eventual return to your home country. For more information see: For more information see: Insurance.

#### If you feel sick and think you may have hepatitis C:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Talk to your doctor or nurse if you feel seriously ill, especially if you have a fever. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tell them about your travel.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ask if you need to be tested for hepatitis C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * For more information about medical care abroad, see Getting Health Care Abroad and a list of International Joint Commission-accredited facilities.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Take medicine to control your fever and reduce your pain. Take medicine that contains aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil), or naproxen (Aleve). Do **NOT** take acetaminophen (Tylenol).

### Traveler Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Hepatitis C Information for the Public
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Hepatitis C FAQs for the Public
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Hepatitis C Patient Education Resources

### Clinician Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Hepatitis C in _CDC Health Information for International Travel 201_ _2_ , the "Yellow Book"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Hepatitis C Information for Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Hepatitis C Laboratory testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Hepatitis C: Standard Notifiable Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Hepatitis C Case Definition

* * *

Page last reviewed: March 10, 2013

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Disease Directory (41)expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Hepatitis C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

