

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

### Measles

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What is measles?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Who is at risk?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What can travelers do to prevent measles?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveler Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Clinician Information

### What is measles?

Measles is a highly contagious disease caused by a virus that is spread
through the air by breathing, coughing, or sneezing. Symptoms of measles are
rash, high fever, cough, runny nose, and red, watery eyes. Some people who
become sick with measles also get an ear infection, diarrhea, or a serious
lung infection, such as pneumonia. Although severe cases are rare, measles can
cause swelling of the brain and even death. Measles can be especially severe
in infants and in people who are malnourished or who have weakened immune
systems (such as from HIV infection or cancer or from certain drugs or
therapies).

### Who is at risk?

![illustration of a passport](https://www.cdc.gov/measles/images/widget-
passport-300x300.png)

##### Traveling Abroad?

Find out if you need measles vaccine

Measles remains a common disease in many parts of the world, including Europe,
the Middle East, Asia, the Pacific, and Africa.  **In the United States, most
measles cases result from international travel** _._  The disease is brought
into the United States by people who get infected in other countries. Measles
outbreaks can result when returning travelers spread the disease to people who
have not been vaccinated and are not otherwise protected against measles.*
Anyone who is not protected against measles is at risk of getting infected
when he or she travels internationally.

### What can travelers do to prevent measles?

#### Get the measles vaccine:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Make sure you are fully vaccinated or otherwise protected against measles.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Infants 6-11 months of age should have 1 dose of measles vaccine if traveling internationally.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Children in the United States routinely receive measles vaccination at 12-15 months of age.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Infants vaccinated before 12 months of age should be revaccinated on or after the first birthday with 2 doses, separated by at least 28 days.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Children 12 months of age or older should have 2 doses, separated by at least 28 days.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adolescents and adults who have not had measles or have not been vaccinated should get 2 doses, separated by at least 28 days.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Two doses of MMR (measles, mumps, and rubella) vaccine are nearly 100% effective at preventing measles.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The only measles vaccines available in the United States are the measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) and the measles-mumps-rubella-varicella (MMRV) vaccines. MMR has been used safely and effectively since the 1970s. A few people experience mild, temporary, adverse reactions, such as joint pain, from the vaccine, but serious side effects are extremely rare. There is no link between MMR and autism.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * See Vaccine Information Statements (VIS) for more information.

#### Take steps to prevent illness:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Wash your hands often.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * If soap and water aren't available, clean your hands with hand sanitizer (containing at least 60% alcohol).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Don't touch your eyes, nose, or mouth. If you need to touch your face, make sure your hands are clean.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or your sleeve (not your hands) when coughing or sneezing.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Try to avoid close contact, such as kissing, hugging, or sharing eating utensils or cups, with people who are sick..

#### If you feel sick and think you may have measles:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Talk to your doctor or nurse if you feel seriously ill, especially if you have a fever. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tell him or her about your travel.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * For more information about medical care abroad, see Getting Health Care Abroad and a list of International Joint Commission-accredited facilities.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Avoid contact with other people while you are sick.

### Traveler Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC Measles Homepage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Measles Webpage for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Measles Vaccination Information

### Clinician Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Measles in _CDC Health Information for International Travel_ -"Yellow Book"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Measles Webpage for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC Measles Homepage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Measles Clinical Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) Recommendations for MMR vaccine and MMRV vaccine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Measles Laboratory and Tools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Measles: Immediate Notifiable Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Chapter 7: Measles--Manual for Surveillance of Vaccine-Preventable Diseases-"Pink Book"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * MMR Vaccine Information Statement

*Those who are otherwise protected include people who were born before 1957 and those who have been tested and have confirmed immunity. Talk to a doctor to see if this applies to you.

* * *

Page last reviewed: February 14, 2020

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Disease Directory (41)expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Measles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

