

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

### Travel to Hot Climates

![Chairs on beach](/travel/images/chairs-tropical-beach.jpg)

**Travel to warm or hot destinations may make you more likely to get heat-
related illnesses, like heat stroke and heat exhaustion, especially if you 're
not use to the heat. Learn how to prevent, recognize, and treat heat-related
illness.**

### People at highest risk for heat-related Illness

The elderly, young children, and people with chronic illnesses may start
showing signs of heat-related illness before healthy adults. However, even
young and healthy people can get sick from spending too much time in the heat.
When you're traveling in hot climates, remember a few tips to keep yourself
and those around you healthy.

### Tips to help you stay safe in the heat:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drink plenty of non-alcoholic fluids
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Wear sunscreen with SPF 15 or more and reapply throughout the day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Wear a hat and sunglasses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Wear loose, lightweight, light-colored clothing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Plan outdoor activities during cooler parts of the day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Rest often, and try to stay in the shade when outdoors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * If you will be doing strenuous activities in the heat, try to get adjusted before you travel by exercising 1 hour per day in the heat

### Heat exhaustion

Heat exhaustion is a mild form of heat-related illness that can happen after
exposure to hot temperatures and low fluid intake. People at highest risk for
heat exhaustion are the elderly, those with high blood pressure, and those
working or exercising in the heat.

**Symptoms of heat exhaustion include:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * excessive thirst
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * profuse sweating
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * headache
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * dizziness or confusion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * nausea

If you or anyone you are traveling with develops these symptoms, get out of
the sun immediately and try to cool off with a fan, air conditioning, or by
getting in cool water. Also, remember to drink cool, non-alcoholic beverages
such as water or sports electrolyte drinks.

### Heat stroke

Heat stroke is the most serious heat-related illness. It happens when your
body can no longer control its own temperature. The body's temperature rises
quickly, and you stop sweating, so your body cannot cool down. **Early heat
stroke symptoms are similar to those of heat exhaustion, but they progress to
more severe symptoms.** Body temperature can rise to 106°F or higher within 10
to 15 minutes. Even without a thermometer, people will feel hot to the touch.
Heat stroke can cause death or permanent disability if emergency treatment is
not provided.

If you or a travel companion develops these symptoms:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Move to the shade or a cool place out of the sun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cool the victim as quickly as possibly using water and cool air
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drink cool, nonalcoholic beverages, such as water or sports-electrolyte drinks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Seek medical attention if symptoms persist

### Information for Travelers

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Yellow Book: Extreme Temperatures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Extreme Heat

* * *

Page last reviewed: December 13, 2018

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

