

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

### West Nile virus

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What is West Nile virus?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Who is at risk?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What can travelers do to prevent West Nile virus?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Traveler Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Clinician Information

### What is West Nile virus?

West Nile virus (WNV) is an illness caused by a virus that is spread through
mosquito bites. About 80% of people who are infected with WNV do not feel
sick. For people who do feel sick, symptoms can include fever, headache,
tiredness, nausea, vomiting, swollen lymph glands, and a rash on the chest,
stomach, or back. Symptoms usually last from a few days to a few weeks. In
rare cases, more serious symptoms of WNV can occur. Serious symptoms include
high fever, headache, neck stiffness, lack of energy, disorientation, coma,
tremors, convulsions, muscle weakness, vision loss, numbness, and paralysis.

WNV can also be spread through blood transfusions, transplants, breastfeeding,
and from mother to baby. However, these types of cases are rare; most WNV
cases are caused by mosquito bites.

### Who is at risk?

Travelers who go to Africa, Europe, the Middle East, west and central Asia, or
North America are at risk of getting West Nile virus. Travelers who plan to
spend a lot of time outdoors or who will be in areas with a lot of mosquitoes
are at increased risk of WNV. Travelers over 50 years of age are at the
highest risk for severe disease if they get WNV.

### What can travelers do to prevent West Nile virus?

There is no vaccine or medicine that prevents West Nile virus. Travelers can
protect themselves by preventing mosquito bites.

#### Prevent mosquito bites:

![man spraying insect repellent on his arm](/travel/images/bugspray.jpg)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Cover exposed skin by wearing long-sleeved shirts, long pants, and hats.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Use an appropriate insect repellent as directed.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Higher percentages of active ingredient provide longer protection. Use products with the following active ingredients: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * **DEET** (Products containing DEET include Off!, Cutter, Sawyer, and Ultrathon)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * **Picaridin** (also known as KBR 3023, Bayrepel, and icaridin products containing picaridin include Cutter Advanced, Skin So Soft Bug Guard Plus, and Autan [outside the US])
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * **Oil of lemon eucalyptus** **(OLE)** or **PMD** (Products containing OLE include Repel and Off! Botanicals)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * **IR3535**  (Products containing IR3535 include Skin So Soft Bug Guard Plus Expedition and SkinSmart)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Always follow product directions and reapply as directed: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * If you are also using sunscreen, apply sunscreen first and insect repellent second.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Follow package directions when applying repellent on children. Avoid applying repellent to their hands, eyes, and mouth.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Use permethrin-treated clothing and gear (such as boots, pants, socks, and tents). You can buy pre-treated clothing and gear or treat them yourself: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Treated clothing remains protective after multiple washings. See the product information to find out how long the protection will last.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * If treating items yourself, follow the product instructions carefully.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Do **not** use permethrin directly on skin.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Stay and sleep in screened or air conditioned rooms.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Use a bed net if the area where you are sleeping is exposed to the outdoors.

#### If you are bitten by mosquitoes:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Avoid scratching mosquito bites.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Apply hydrocortisone cream or calamine lotion to reduce itching.

#### If you feel sick and think you may have West Nile virus:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Talk to your doctor or nurse if you feel seriously ill, especially if you have a fever. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Tell them about your travel.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * For more information about medical care abroad, see Getting Health Care Abroad and a list of International Joint Commission-accredited facilities.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Use acetaminophen. Do not take pain relievers that contain aspirin and ibuprofen (Advil), it may lead to a greater tendency to bleed.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Get lots of rest, and drink plenty of liquids.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Avoid spreading the disease by preventing more mosquito bites.

### Traveler Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * West Nile Virus FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC West Nile Virus website
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Avoid Bug Bites-Information for travelers

### Clinician Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC West Nile Virus website
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Clinical Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Laboratory Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Notifiable Condition-Abroviral Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Case Definition

* * *

Page last reviewed: October 28, 2013

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Disease Directory (41)expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * West Nile virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

