

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

### Fish Poisoning in Travelers: Ciguatera and Scombroid

![fish](/travel/images/fish-blue.jpg)

Although toxins in fish can be a problem on any dinner table, you may be
tempted to try local seafood more often when traveling to a remote ocean
paradise. School yourself on these illnesses and protect yourself so you can
enjoy your trip

If you believe you are experiencing seafood poisoning, you should report it to
the public health department immediately and seek medical care.

### Ciguatera

You can get ciguatera (sig-wah-TARE-ah) by eating fish contaminated with
toxins produced by tiny algae found around coral reefs.

#### Risk to travelers

Ciguatera is most commonly caused by eating barracuda, moray eel, grouper,
amberjack, sea bass, sturgeon, parrot fish, surgeonfish, and red snapper , or
fish that are high on the food chain. Because fish are shipped around the
world, you can get ciguatera anywhere. The risk is highest in fish from the
Caribbean Sea and the Pacific and Indian Oceans. As many as 3 of every 100
travelers to these areas get ciguatera. The eastern Mediterranean and the
western Gulf of Mexico are also areas of risk.

#### Symptoms

Ciguatera symptoms usually develop 3-6 hours after eating contaminated fish
but may come as many as 30 hours later. Symptoms can include nausea, vomiting,
diarrhea, and stomach pain. Some people may have a tingling sensation, tooth
pain or feeling as if teeth are loose, itching, a metallic taste in the mouth,
or blurred vision. Additionally, sometimes people find that cold things feel
hot and hot things feel cold. Symptoms usually last a few days but can linger
for months or years. There is no way to cure ciguatera, but a doctor may be
able to treat the symptoms. After recovering, avoid a relapse by avoiding
fish, nuts, alcohol, and caffeine for at least 6 months.

#### Prevention

Avoid or limit eating reef fish, including the fish listed above. Especially
avoid eating barracuda and moray eel, as they are more likely to cause
ciguatera. Do not eat the fish's liver, intestines, eggs, or head because they
have the highest concentration of toxins. The toxins that cause ciguatera do
not affect the appearance, taste, or smell of fish, so there is no way to tell
if fish is contaminated. The toxins are not destroyed by heat, so even
thoroughly cooked fish is a risk.

### Scombroid

![fish](/travel/images/spotted-fish.jpg)

Scombroid (SKOM-broyd) is caused by eating fish that has not been properly
refrigerated or preserved.

#### Risk to travelers

Scombroid occurs worldwide. Fish typically associated with it include tuna,
mackerel, mahi-mahi, sardines, anchovies, herring, bluefish, amberjack, and
marlin.

#### Symptoms

Scombroid symptoms usually develop within a few minutes to an hour after
eating contaminated fish. They usually resemble an allergic reaction, such as
flushing of the face, headache, heart palpitations, itching, blurred vision,
cramps, and diarrhea. Symptoms can be treated with antihistamines (allergy
medicine). Even without treatment, people usually get better within 12-48
hours.

#### Prevention

![fish](/travel/images/dead-fish.jpg)

Contaminated fish may taste peppery, sharp, metallic, or bitter or might look
and taste normal. Keep in mind that cooking the fish does not prevent
scombroid.

### Shellfish Poisoning

Toxins in contaminated shellfish such as mussels, oysters, clams, scallops,
cockles, abalone, whelks, moon snails, Dungeness crab, shrimp, and lobster can
cause illness when eaten.

#### Risk to travelers

Contaminated shellfish can be found in temperate and tropical waters worldwide
during or after algae blooms. Different shellfish poisoning syndromes (such as
paralytic, diarrheic, amnesic, and neurotoxic) are associated with shellfish
from distinct geographical regions. Make sure to tell your doctor if you've
traveled and you think you may have shellfish poisoning.

#### Symptoms

Symptoms usually appear 30-60 minutes after eating contaminated shellfish, but
it could be a few hours before you start to feel sick. Symptoms vary based on
the type of toxin in the shellfish and can include numbness and tingling,
headache, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and memory loss. Severe cases can be
fatal.

#### Prevention

The toxins that cause these symptoms can't be destroyed by cooking, so the
best way to avoid illness is to not eat shellfish. If you're visiting an area
that's recently experienced an algae bloom, sometimes called "red tide" or
"brown tide," it is especially important to avoid eating shellfish.

#### Treatment

There is no specific treatment for shellfish poisoning.

### More Information

Food Poisoning from Marine Toxins

Harmful Algal Bloom-Associated Illness



* * *

Page last reviewed: November 18, 2019

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

