

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate

### Diseases Spread by Ticks

Diseases spread by ticks are among the most common travel-related illnesses.
Often overlooked, these diseases are frequently seen in travelers returning
from safaris and other outdoor activities. Preventing tick bites, checking for
ticks after being outside, and removing any attached ticks are essential steps
in preventing tickborne disease.

## Preventing Tick Bites

![man spraying insect repellent](/travel/images/man-spraying-repellent.jpg)

No vaccine is available in the United States to prevent diseases spread by
ticks; however, you can take steps to reduce your risk of getting a tick bite:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Dress appropriately: wear light-colored clothing, wear long pants and sleeves, tuck in shirts, tuck pants into socks, and wear closed-toe shoes.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Use insect repellents on the skin that contain at least 20% DEET. ("Natural" products, such as citronella, are not effective.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Use permethrin-treated clothing and gear, or treat your gear and clothing with permethrin before departure.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stay out of tall grass, brush, or heavily wooded areas; walk in the center of hiking trails.

## Checking for Ticks

It can take several hours for a tick to attach and begin transmitting the
disease, so the sooner the tick can be found and removed, the better. Checking
for ticks frequently increases the likelihood of finding a tick before it can
transmit the bacteria. Bathe or shower as soon as possible after coming
indoors. Then do a full-body tick check with a handheld or full-length mirror.
Parents should check their children for ticks under the arms, in and around
the ears, inside the belly button, behind the knees, between the legs, around
the waist, and especially in their hair. Examine gear and pets; ticks can ride
into the home on clothing and pets, and then attach to a person later. Last,
tumble clothes in a dryer on high heat for an hour to kill remaining ticks.

## Removing Ticks

![how to remove a tick](/travel/images/remove-tick.jpg)

If you find a tick, use tweezers to grasp it as close to the skin as possible.
Pull upward with steady, even pressure. Don't twist or jerk the tick; this can
cause the mouth-parts to break off and remain in the skin. If this happens,
remove the mouth-parts with tweezers. If you are unable to remove the mouth-
parts easily with clean tweezers, leave it alone and let the skin heal. After
removing the tick, thoroughly clean the bite area and your hands with rubbing
alcohol, an iodine scrub, or soap and water.

## Symptoms of Diseases Spread by Ticks

Common symptoms include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fever/chills
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Headache
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fatigue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Muscle or joint pain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rash

Contact your doctor if you feel seriously ill, especially if you have a fever.
Tell your doctor about your travel history, including what countries you
visited and what you did there. Be sure to mention if you remember seeing or
being bitten by a tick. Keep in mind that symptoms can appear after you return
home or while abroad.

## More Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ticks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Avoiding Ticks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Symptoms of Tickborne Illnesses

* * *

Page last reviewed: October 23, 2017

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

