

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Syndicate

#  Chapter 1 Introduction

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chapter 1 - Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chapter 1 - _Perspectives_ : Why Guidelines Differ

## Travel Epidemiology

Allison Taylor Walker, Regina C. LaRocque, Mark J.â¯Sotir

Travelers are an epidemiologically important population because of their
mobility, their potential for exposure to diseases outside their home country,
and the possibility that they may serve as a conduit for disease from one
country to another. In the past 10 years, for example, travelers have faced
newly emerging threats, including Ebola, chikungunya, and Zika. Evolving
epidemiology of disease, the increasing prevalence of antimicrobial drug
resistance, and the development of new vaccines and prophylactic treatments
have each contributed to create the ongoing need for surveillance of
international travelers.

The risk of travel-related illness varies depending on destination and
traveler characteristics. Existing information regarding the actual risk for
travelers (often expressed as number of events per 100,000 travelers) is
limited for several reasons. It is difficult to obtain an accurate numerator
(number of cases of disease among travelers) and denominator (number of
travelers overall or travelers to a specific destination who are susceptible
to infection). To calculate a true risk for a traveler, scientific studies
would have to document the number of travelers susceptible to that disease or
condition and the number of those affected during a specific period of time.
If the illness is mild, the traveler may never seek health care, or clinicians
might not perform diagnostic tests to identify the cause accurately.
Furthermore, because travelers often visit multiple destinations, it could be
difficult to determine the location where the exposure occurred and attribute
risk to that location.

Frequently quoted studies on the incidence of infection in travelers use a
variety of methodologic designs, each with its own strengths and weaknesses,
making findings difficult to compare or combine. These studies have examined,
for the most part, only a few key diseases or conditions, combining all
travelers regardless of destination. Many have been single-clinic or single-
destination studies that lead to conclusions that are not generalizable to
groups of travelers with different local, national, or cultural backgrounds.

Health care providers must understand the epidemiologic features of the
traveling population to guide pretravel recommendations and posttravel
evaluations. The characteristics of travel-related diseases must be
considered, including mode of transmission, incubation period, signs and
symptoms, duration of illness, and diagnostic testing. The presence,
frequency, seasonality, and geographic distribution of the disease need to be
assessed; these might change over time because of outbreaks, emergence or
reemergence in new areas or populations, successful public health
interventions, or other factors.

Data on disease incidence in local populations could identify the most
important diseases to monitor within a country, but the relevance of such data
to travelers--who have different risk behaviors, eating habits,
accommodations, knowledge of preventive measures, and activities--is usually
limited. Surveillance data that focus on travelers or on illnesses that affect
travelers are therefore more useful in describing travel-related disease
patterns andâ¯risks.

Two existing networks provide data on the demographics of US international
travelers and the acquisition of travel-related illness. Global TravEpiNet
(GTEN) is a consortium of health clinics across the United States that provide
pretravel health consultations; data from GTEN provide a snapshot of the types
of travelers seeking pretravel health care and their travel practices, as well
as longitudinal cohort data on risk and acquisition of travel-associated
conditions. The GeoSentinel Global Surveillance Network, a worldwide data
collection and communication network composed of International Society of
Travel Medicine (ISTM) travel and tropical medicine clinics, collects
posttravel illness surveillance data. GeoSentinel analyzes this data to
describe the relationships between travel and travel-related illness in
specific subpopulations of travelers.

Familiarity with the epidemiology and prevalence of travel-related infections,
coupled with demographic information on travelers and their particular travel
details, can help clinicians provide optimal health-related information and
advice. Clinical networks and surveillance systems provide epidemiologic data
on new and prevalent global infectious disease threats. Improved collaboration
between travel health providers and the travel health clinical networks is
needed to further expand and develop the evidence base in this field; this
will allow for better-informed preparation before travel and enhanced clinical
awareness of travel epidemiology for clinicians seeing patients before and
after travel.

### BIBLIOGRAPHY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1. Adachi K, Coleman MS, Khan N, Jentes ES, Arguin P, Rao SR, et al. Economics of malaria prevention in US travelers to West Africa. Clin Infect Dis. 2014 Jan;58(1):11-21.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2. CDC. Malaria surveillance--United States, 2011. MMWR Surveill Summ. 2013 Nov 1;62(5):1-17.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3. Esposito DH, Stich A, Epelboin L, Malvy D, Han PV, Bottieau E, et al. Acute muscular sarcocystosis: an international investigation among ill travelers returning from Tioman Island, Malaysia, 2011-2012\. Clin Infect Dis. 2014 Nov 15;59(10):1401-10.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4. Harvey K, Esposito DH, Han P, Kozarsky P, Freedman DO, Plier DA, et al. Surveillance for travel-related disease--GeoSentinel Surveillance System, United States, 1997-2011\. MMWR Surveill Summ. 2013 Jul. 19;62:1-23.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5. LaRocque RC, Rao SR, Lee J, Ansdell V, Yates JA, Schwartz BS, et al. Global TravEpiNet: a national consortium of clinics providing care to international travelers--analysis of demographic characteristics, travel destinations, and pretravel healthcare of high-risk US international travelers, 2009-2011\. Clin Infect Dis. 2012 Feb. 15;54(4):455-62.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6. Leder K, Torresi J, Libman MD, Cramer JP, Castelli F, Schlagenhauf P, et al. GeoSentinel surveillance of illness in returned travelers, 2007-2011\. Ann Intern Med. 2013 Mar. 19;158(6):456-68.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7. Millman AJ, Esposito DH, Biggs HM, Decenteceo M, Klevos A, Hunsperger E, et al. Chikungunya and dengue virus infections among United States community service volunteers returning from the Dominican Republic. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2014 Mar. 14;64(6):1336-41.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8. Sharp TM, Pillai P, Hunsperger E, Santiago GA, Anderson T, Vap T, et al. A cluster of dengue cases in American missionaries returning from Haiti. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2010 Jan.;86(1):6-22.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9. Sotir M, Freedman D. Basic epidemiology of infectious diseases, including surveillance and reporting. In: Zuckerman J, Leggat P, Brunette G, editors. Essential Travel Medicine. Chichester (UK): John Wiley & Sons;â¯2015.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10. United Nations World Tourism Organization. UNWTO Tourism Highlights, 2016 ed. [Internet]. Madrid: World Tourism Organization; 2016 [cited 2018 Mar. 26]. Available from: http://media.unwto.org/press-release/2016-01-18/international-tourist-arrivals-4-reachrecord-12-billion-2015.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chapter 1 - Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Chapter 1 - _Perspectives_ : Why Guidelines Differ

* * *

Page last reviewed: June 21, 2019

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

