

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Syndicate

### Road Safety: Don't Wreck Your Vacation!

![crowded street scene](/travel/images/intersection.jpg)

Follow these tips to minimize your risk of being injured in a car crash while
you're on vacation.

Most people think about travel vaccines when they're planning an international
trip, but few people consider the possibility that they might be involved in a
car crash. Motor vehicle crashes are the leading cause of death among healthy
travelers, and no vaccine can prevent a car wreck. Fortunately, a little bit
of knowledge and awareness can go a long way toward keeping you safe.

### Just the Stats

Each year, 1.3 million people are killed and 20-50 million are injured in
motor vehicle crashes worldwide. Most (85%) of these casualties occur in low-
or middle-income countries, and 25,000 of the deaths are among tourists.
Nearly half of medical evacuations back to the United States are the result of
a car crash, and a medical evacuation can cost upward of $100,000.

### Why Are Car Crashes a Risk for Travelers?

More and more people are driving cars and riding motorcycles in developing
countries, and these countries are an increasingly common destination for US
tourists. Roads in these countries may be poorly maintained, and traffic laws
may be haphazardly followed or enforced. A crash in a developing country is
more likely to be fatal because emergency care may not be readily available.
It may take a long time to get to a center that can provide appropriate care,
and care, where available, may not be up to US standards.

Tourists may get behind the wheel in a foreign country without being
adequately informed of local traffic laws, they may not be accustomed to
driving on the left, or they may be driving vehicles (such as rented
motorcycles or scooters) that they do not know how to properly operate. In
addition, the excitement of being on vacation may encourage travelers to
engage in risky behaviors, such as drinking and driving, that they would never
do at home.

### What Can I Do to Avoid a Crash?

![London street](/travel/images/londonstreet.jpg)

Take the following steps to minimize your risk of being injured in a crash
while you're on vacation:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Always wear seatbelts and put children in car seats.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * When possible, avoid riding in a car in a developing country at night.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Don't ride motorcycles. If you must ride a motorcycle, wear a helmet.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Know local traffic laws before you get behind the wheel.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Don't drink and drive.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Ride only in marked taxis that have seatbelts.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Avoid overcrowded, overweight, or top-heavy buses or vans.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Be alert when crossing the street, especially in countries where people drive on the left.

Following these tips is the best way you can keep from getting in a motor
vehicle crash and ensure a safe and healthy vacation. (But don't forget your
travel vaccines, either!)

Infographics

![Infographic: International road safety](/travel/images/international-road-
safety-350.jpg)

Infographic: International Road Safety

![Infographic: Road-related accidents are the #1 cause of preventable death in
healthy US travelers](/travel/images/road-safety-8-steps-350.jpg)

Infographic: 8 Simple Steps to Road Safety

More Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Global Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Motor Vehicle Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * The Association for Safe International Road Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Make Roads Safe: The Campaign for Global Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * CDC Travelers' Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Injury Prevention from _CDC Health Information for International Travel_ (Yellow Book)



* * *

Page last reviewed: January 08, 2018

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

