

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Sexually Transmitted Diseases

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Adolescents and Young Adults

Minus

Related Pages

![15 to 24 year olds account for half of all new STD infections.](/std/life-
stages-populations/images/adol.jpg)

While sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) affect individuals of all ages,
STDs take a particularly heavy toll on young people. CDC estimates that youth
ages 15-24 make up just over one quarter of the sexually active population,
but account for half of the 20 million new sexually transmitted infections
that occur in the United States each year. The resources on this page provide
information about the impact of STDs on youth as well as resources for
reaching this population.

Highlights

Confidentiality Issues and Use of Sexually Transmitted Disease Services Among
Sexually Experienced Persons Aged 15-25 Years -- United States, 2013-2015 -
MMWR March 10, 2017

2015 STD Treatment Guidelines - Adolescents - STD screening and treatment
information for youth and young adults. (June 4, 2015)

Talking with Your Teens about Sex: Going Beyond "the Talk" pdf iconpdf
icon(November 20, 2014)

Adolescents, Technology and Reducing Risk for HIV, STDs and Pregnancy - White
paper provides an overview about the ways in which digital technology can be
used to improve the sexual health of adolescents. (August 8, 2013)

Success Stories

![Shaping Tomorrow’s Leaders Today: Community Sexual Health Program Cultivates
Leadership Skills in
Youth](/std/products/success/images/carsSuccessNov2018-120.png)

Shaping Tomorrow's Leaders Today: Community Sexual Health Program Cultivates
Leadership Skills in Youth

Baltimore City Health Department and CARS team up to empower young leaders to
reach their peers about sexual health

![Healthy
Relationships](/std/products/success/images/HealthyRelationshipsSuccessStory.png)

Healthy Relationships, Healthy Life: College Workshops Empower Students to
Protect Their Own Sexual Health

The Healthy Relationships program is bringing STD prevention information to
college students, and helping to develop the next generation of student
leaders.

badge icon

See more Success Stories

Webinars, Podcasts and Videos

KABI Chronicles: The Edge Motion Comic Series - An original, comic-based,
serial drama following the lives of nine fictional high school and college
friends as they navigate young adulthood, while also educating viewers about
HIV and STDs. (August 4, 2016)

Let's Talk About Sexual Health - Video for doctors and young adults on how to
talk about sexual health. (November 30, 2012)

Podcast: STD Awareness: Reaching Youth - Dr. Gail Bolan, Director of CDC's
Division of STD Prevention, discusses the role healthcare providers play in
educating young patients about sexual health and STD prevention. (April 16,
2012)

Reports

STDs in Adolescents and Young Adults - An overview of the 2018 STD
Surveillance Report statistics and data collection methods. (October 8, 2019)

Incidence, Prevalence, and Cost of Sexually Transmitted Infections in the
United Statespdf iconpdf icon - Fact sheet summarizing findings from two
analyses published by CDC. (February 2013)

Fact Sheets and Brochures

Just Diagnosed? New fact sheet provides the three steps you can take if you
were recently diagnosed with gonorrhea or chlamydia, including resources to
help you talk to your partner. (August 3, 2017)

STD Fact Sheets - Disease-specific information about symptoms, prevention, and
treatment.

Know your CONDOM DOs & DON'Tspdf iconpdf icon

![thumbnail of
infographic](/std/images/promos/sam/2013/sam2013infographic-160.gif)

STIs Among Young Americans - Infographic

Related Content

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ways to Prevent STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * HIV Among Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Adolescent and School Health

Page last reviewed: December 7, 2017

Content source: Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention

home Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Diseases & Related Conditionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HIV/AIDS & STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STDs & Infertility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STDs during Pregnancyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Detailed Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment and Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Risk and Oral Sex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other STDsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Laboratory Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Life Stages and Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescents and Young Adultsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adolescents and Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adolescents and STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gay, Bisexual and Other MSMplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gay Men & STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Just Diagnosed?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Which STD Tests Should I Get?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Lowdown Infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Management & Evaluation Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Effective Interventions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gap Assessment Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Outbreak Response Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Congenital Syphilis HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Disseminated Gonococcal Infection HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gonorrhea with Reduced SusceptibilityÂ HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LGV HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Practical Use of Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Program Operations Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * S.P.A.C.E. Monkey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Data Management & Information Technologyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Generic Information Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * BPMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Partner Servicesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Internet Partner Services Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * VCAmon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CS Webinar Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Projects & Initiativesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD PCHDplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * National Disease Intervention Specialist (DIS) Recognition Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project (GISP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Health Equityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Community Approaches to Reducing STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Indian Health Service Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SDMB Contacts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tools & Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Brochuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Facts Brochures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ä¸­æ (Chinese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * KreyÃ²l (Haitian Creole)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ð ÑÑÑÐºÐ¸Ð¹ (Russian)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tiáº½ng ViÃªt (Vietnamese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Prevention Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Provider Pocket Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicated Content
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Videos and Podcastsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Letâs Talk About Sexual Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Safe in the City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Webinars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Widgets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Trainingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Prevention Coursesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Passport to Partner Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Advanced STD Intervention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Visual Case Analysis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Principles of STD Supervision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Intervention for Supervisors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Essentials of STD Supervision I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tailored Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Continuing Education Online
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SASSI â SAS Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD 101 in a Boxplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Script for _Sex in the City_ Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Clinical Slidesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Clinical Slides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Picture Cardsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Picture Cards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Treatment and Screeningplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Drug Noticesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gemifloxacin 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Procaine Penicillin G Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Erythromycin (0.5%) Ophthalmic Ointment Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Expedited Partner Therapyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gonorrhea Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Legal Status of EPT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Legal/Policy Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Prenatal Syphilis Screening Laws
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD QCS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additional Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About the Division of STD Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fundingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Disease Intervention Training Centers (DITC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * National Network of STD Clinical Prevention Training Centers (NNPTC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * SSuN: Program and other NOFO Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Strategic Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive

Follow STD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Social_round_twitter twitter STD on Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Social_round_facebook facebook STD on Facebook

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

