

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# Syndicated Content

Minus

Related Pages

Syndicated content allows you to add CDC.gov content to your own website
without having to maintain or update it. CDC offers a free Web Content
Syndication service that gives public health partners the opportunity to
syndicate CDC content directly to their sites. Public health partners,
including federal public health agencies, state and local public health
departments, non-profit organizations, academic institutions, and commercial
organizations can gain direct access to content without having to monitor and
copy updates.

Below is a list of STD content available for syndication. More information
about syndication and other CDC web content available for syndication can be
found at the CDC Content Syndication page.

This short video demonstrates how to add CDC syndicated content to your web
site.



 This is a table caption for compliance. Please ignore it.

### Syndicated STD Content  
  
---  
Name | Language | Options  
  
How You Can Prevent Sexually Transmitted Diseases  
www.cdc.gov/std/prevention.htm

| English | ![syndicate](/STD/images/icons/icon_syndicate.png)Syndicate this
page  
  
Bacterial Vaginosis - CDC Fact Sheet  
www.cdc.gov/STD/BV/STDFact-Bacterial-Vaginosis.htm

| English | ![syndicate](/STD/images/icons/icon_syndicate.png)Syndicate this
page  
  
Chlamydia - CDC Fact Sheet  
www.cdc.gov/STD/Chlamydia/STDFact-Chlamydia.htm

| English | ![syndicate](/STD/images/icons/icon_syndicate.png)Syndicate this
page  
  
Clamidia - Hoja informativa de los CDC  
www.cdc.gov/std/spanish/clamidia/stdfact-chlamydia-s.htm

| Spanish | ![syndicate](/STD/images/icons/icon_syndicate.png)Syndicate this
page  
  
Congenital Syphilis - CDC Fact Sheet  
www.cdc.gov/std/syphilis/stdfact-congenital-syphilis.htm

| English | ![syndicate](/STD/images/icons/icon_syndicate.png)Syndicate this
page  
  
Enfermedad inflamatoria pelvica - Hoja informativa de los CDC  
www.cdc.gov/std/spanish/eip/stdfact-pid-s.htm

| Spanish | ![syndicate](/STD/images/icons/icon_syndicate.png)Syndicate this
page  
  
Enfermedades de transmision sexual (ETS) durante el embarazo: Hoja informativa
de los CDC  
www.cdc.gov/std/spanish/embarazo/stdfact-pregnancy-s.htm

| Spanish | ![syndicate](/STD/images/icons/icon_syndicate.png)Syndicate this
page  
  
Genital Herpes - CDC Fact Sheet  
www.cdc.gov/STD/Herpes/STDFact-Herpes.htm

| English | ![syndicate](/STD/images/icons/icon_syndicate.png)Syndicate this
page  
Genital HPV Infection - CDC Fact Sheet  
www.cdc.gov/STD/HPV/STDFact-HPV.htm | English |
![syndicate](/STD/images/icons/icon_syndicate.png)Syndicate this page  
  
Gonorrea - Hoja informativa de los CDC  
www.cdc.gov/std/spanish/gonorrea/stdfact-gonorrhea-s.htm

| Spanish | ![syndicate](/STD/images/icons/icon_syndicate.png)Syndicate this
page  
  
Gonorrhea - CDC Fact Sheet  
www.cdc.gov/STD/Gonorrhea/STDFact-gonorrhea.htm

| English | ![syndicate](/STD/images/icons/icon_syndicate.png)Syndicate this
page  
  
Herpes genital - Hoja informativa de los CDC  
www.cdc.gov/std/spanish/herpes/stdfact-herpes-s.htm

| Spanish | ![syndicate](/STD/images/icons/icon_syndicate.png)Syndicate this
page  
  
STDs & HIV - CDC Fact Sheet  
www.cdc.gov/std/hiv/stdfact-std-hiv.htm

| English | ![syndicate](/STD/images/icons/icon_syndicate.png)Syndicate this
page  
  
Infeccion genital por VPH - Hoja informativa de los CDC  
www.cdc.gov/std/spanish/vph/stdfact-hpv-s.htm

| Spanish | ![syndicate](/STD/images/icons/icon_syndicate.png)Syndicate this
page  
  
Information for Teens and Young Adults: Staying Healthy and Preventing STDs  
www.cdc.gov/std/life-stages-populations/stdfact-teens.htm

| English | ![syndicate](/STD/images/icons/icon_syndicate.png)Syndicate this
page  
  
Know the Facts  
www.cdc.gov/std/saw/gyt/knowthefacts.htm

| English | ![syndicate](/STD/images/icons/icon_syndicate.png)Syndicate this
page  
  
Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID) - CDC Fact Sheet  
www.cdc.gov/STD/PID/STDFact-PID.htm

| English | ![syndicate](/STD/images/icons/icon_syndicate.png)Syndicate this
page  
  
Sifilis - Hoja informativa de los CDC  
www.cdc.gov/std/spanish/sifilis/stdfact-syphilis-s.htm

| Spanish | ![syndicate](/STD/images/icons/icon_syndicate.png)Syndicate this
page  
  
Sifilis congenita: Hoja informativa de los CDC  
www.cdc.gov/std/spanish/sifilis/stdfact-congenital-syphilis-s.htm

| Spanish | ![syndicate](/STD/images/icons/icon_syndicate.png)Syndicate this
page  
  
Sifilis y los hombres que tienen relaciones sexuales con hombres  
- Hoja informativa de los CDC  
www.cdc.gov/std/spanish/sifilis/stdfact-msm-syphilis-s.htm

| Spanish | ![syndicate](/STD/images/icons/icon_syndicate.png)Syndicate this
page  
  
STD Risk and Oral Sex  
www.cdc.gov/std/healthcomm/stdfact-stdriskandoralsex.htm

| English | ![syndicate](/STD/images/icons/icon_syndicate.png)Syndicate this
page  
  
STDs during Pregnancy - CDC Fact Sheet  
www.cdc.gov/std/pregnancy/STDFact-Pregnancy.htm

| English | ![syndicate](/STD/images/icons/icon_syndicate.png)Syndicate this
page  
  
STD Treatment  
www.cdc.gov/std/treatment/default.htm

| English | ![syndicate](/STD/images/icons/icon_syndicate.png)Syndicate this
page  
  
Syphilis - CDC Fact Sheet  
www.cdc.gov/STD/Syphilis/STDFact-Syphilis.htm

| English | ![syndicate](/STD/images/icons/icon_syndicate.png)Syndicate this
page  
  
Syphilis & MSM (Men Who Have Sex With Men) - CDC Fact Sheet  
www.cdc.gov/STD/Syphilis/STDFact-MSM-Syphilis.htm

| English | ![syndicate](/STD/images/icons/icon_syndicate.png)Syndicate this
page  
  
Trichomoniasis - CDC Fact Sheet  
www.cdc.gov/STD/Trichomonas/STDFact-Trichomoniasis.htm

| English | ![syndicate](/STD/images/icons/icon_syndicate.png)Syndicate this
page  
  
Tricomoniasis - Hoja informativa de los CDC  
www.cdc.gov/std/spanish/tricomoniasis/stdfact-trichomoniasis-s.htm

| Spanish | ![syndicate](/STD/images/icons/icon_syndicate.png)Syndicate this
page  
  
Vaginosis bacteriana - Hoja informativa de los CDC  
www.cdc.gov/std/spanish/vb/stdfact-bacterial-vaginosis-s.htm

| Spanish | ![syndicate](/STD/images/icons/icon_syndicate.png)Syndicate this
page  
  
What Gay, Bisexual and Other Men Who Have Sex with Men Need to Know About
Sexually Transmitted Diseases  
www.cdc.gov/std/life-stages-populations/stdfact-msm.htm

| English | ![syndicate](/STD/images/icons/icon_syndicate.png)Syndicate this
page  
  
Page last reviewed: March 25, 2020

Content source: Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention

home Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Diseases & Related Conditionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HIV/AIDS & STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STDs & Infertility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STDs during Pregnancyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Detailed Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment and Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Risk and Oral Sex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other STDsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Laboratory Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Life Stages and Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescents and Young Adultsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adolescents and Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adolescents and STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gay, Bisexual and Other MSMplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gay Men & STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Just Diagnosed?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Which STD Tests Should I Get?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Lowdown Infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Management & Evaluation Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Effective Interventions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gap Assessment Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Outbreak Response Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Congenital Syphilis HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Disseminated Gonococcal Infection HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gonorrhea with Reduced SusceptibilityÂ HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LGV HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Practical Use of Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Program Operations Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * S.P.A.C.E. Monkey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Data Management & Information Technologyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Generic Information Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * BPMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Partner Servicesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Internet Partner Services Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * VCAmon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CS Webinar Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Projects & Initiativesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD PCHDplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * National Disease Intervention Specialist (DIS) Recognition Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project (GISP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Health Equityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Community Approaches to Reducing STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Indian Health Service Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SDMB Contacts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tools & Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Brochuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Facts Brochures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ä¸­æ (Chinese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * KreyÃ²l (Haitian Creole)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ð ÑÑÑÐºÐ¸Ð¹ (Russian)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tiáº½ng ViÃªt (Vietnamese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Prevention Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Provider Pocket Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicated Content
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Videos and Podcastsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Letâs Talk About Sexual Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Safe in the City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Webinars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Widgets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Trainingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Prevention Coursesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Passport to Partner Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Advanced STD Intervention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Visual Case Analysis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Principles of STD Supervision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Intervention for Supervisors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Essentials of STD Supervision I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tailored Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Continuing Education Online
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SASSI â SAS Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD 101 in a Boxplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Script for _Sex in the City_ Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Clinical Slidesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Clinical Slides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Picture Cardsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Picture Cards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Treatment and Screeningplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Drug Noticesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gemifloxacin 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Procaine Penicillin G Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Erythromycin (0.5%) Ophthalmic Ointment Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Expedited Partner Therapyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gonorrhea Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Legal Status of EPT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Legal/Policy Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Prenatal Syphilis Screening Laws
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD QCS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additional Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About the Division of STD Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fundingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Disease Intervention Training Centers (DITC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * National Network of STD Clinical Prevention Training Centers (NNPTC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * SSuN: Program and other NOFO Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Strategic Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive

Follow STD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Social_round_twitter twitter STD on Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Social_round_facebook facebook STD on Facebook

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

