Link: https://medlineplus.gov/highbloodpressure.html    
                                Description: High blood pressure (hypertension) doesn&#39;t have any initial symptoms but could cause health-related problems later. Find out what you can do to control it.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

High Blood Pressure

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/highbloodpressure.html

#  High Blood Pressure

Also called: Benign essential hypertension, Essential hypertension, HBP, HTN,
Hypertension

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Diagnosis and Tests
  * Prevention and Risk Factors
  * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

  * Living With
  * Related Issues
  * Specifics
  * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

  * Health Check Tools
  * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

  * Statistics and Research
  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Reference Desk
  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Children
  * Teenagers
  * Women
  * Older Adults
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is blood pressure?

Blood pressure is the force of your blood pushing against the walls of your
arteries. Each time your heart beats, it pumps blood into the arteries. Your
blood pressure is highest when your heart beats, pumping the blood. This is
called systolic pressure. When your heart is at rest, between beats, your
blood pressure falls. This is called diastolic pressure.

Your blood pressure reading uses these two numbers. Usually the systolic
number comes before or above the diastolic number. For example, 120/80 means a
systolic of 120 and a diastolic of 80.

### How is high blood pressure diagnosed?

High blood pressure usually has no symptoms. So the only way to find out if
you have it is to get regular blood pressure checks from your health care
provider. Your provider will use a gauge, a stethoscope or electronic sensor,
and a blood pressure cuff. He or she will take two or more readings at
separate appointments before making a diagnosis.

You have high blood pressure if your readings show that

  * Your systolic is 140 or higher **OR**
  * Your diastolic is 90 or higher

Some providers may consider you to have high blood pressure if you have other
heart risk factors and

  * Your systolic is between 130 and 139 **OR**
  * Your diastolic is between 80 and 89

Blood pressure readings above 180 /120 are dangerously high and require
immediate medical attention.

For children and teens, the health care provider compares the blood pressure
reading to what is normal for other kids who are the same age, height, and
gender.

### What are the different types of high blood pressure?

There are two main types of high blood pressure: primary and secondary high
blood pressure.

  * **Primary,** or essential, high blood pressure is the most common type of high blood pressure. For most people who get this kind of blood pressure, it develops over time as you get older.
  * **Secondary** high blood pressure is caused by another medical condition or use of certain medicines. It usually gets better after you treat that condition or stop taking the medicines that are causing it.

### Why do I need to worry about high blood pressure?

When your blood pressure stays high over time, it causes the heart to pump
harder and work overtime, possibly leading to serious health problems such as
heart attack, stroke, heart failure, and kidney failure.

### What are the treatments for high blood pressure?

Treatments for high blood pressure include heart-healthy lifestyle changes and
medicines.

You will work with your provider to come up with a treatment plan. It may
include only the lifestyle changes. These changes, such as heart-healthy
eating and exercise, can be very effective. But sometimes the changes do not
control or lower your high blood pressure. Then you may need to take medicine.
There are different types of blood pressure medicines. Some people need to
take more than one type.

If your high blood pressure is caused by another medical condition or
medicine, treating that condition or stopping the medicine may lower your
blood pressure.

NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Start Here

  * Blood Pressure Matters: Keep Hypertension in Check ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
  * High Blood Pressure ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute) Also in Spanish
  * High Blood Pressure (Hypertension) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (Food and Drug Administration) Also in Spanish
  * What Is High Blood Pressure? (American Heart Association)

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Aldosterone Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Blood Pressure Test (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
  * Chloride Blood Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

  * How to Prevent High Blood Pressure: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Mind Your Risks ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)

## Treatments and Therapies

  * Blood Pressure Medicines: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Living With

  * DASH Diet: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Get the Most Out of Home Blood Pressure Monitoring (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Salty Stuff: Salt, Blood Pressure, and Your Health (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
  * Shaking the Salt Habit (American Heart Association)
  * Understanding Blood Pressure Readings (American Heart Association)

## Related Issues

  * Anxiety: A Cause of High Blood Pressure? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Blood Pressure vs. Heart Rate (Pulse) (American Heart Association)
  * Blood Pressure: Does It Have a Daily Pattern? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Blood Pressure: Is It Affected by Cold Weather? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Common High Blood Pressure Myths (American Heart Association)
  * High Blood Pressure and Cold Remedies: Which Are Safe? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * High Blood Pressure and Kidney Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
  * High Blood Pressure and Sex: Overcome the Challenges (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * High Blood Pressure, Afib and Your Risk of Stroke (American Heart Association)
  * How High Blood Pressure Can Lead to Stroke (American Heart Association)
  * Pulse Pressure: An Indicator of Heart Health? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Stress and High Blood Pressure: What's the Connection? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Weightlifting: Bad for Your Blood Pressure? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * White-Coat Hypertension: When Blood Pressure Rises at the Doctor's Office (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Wrist Blood Pressure Monitors: Are They Accurate? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

  * Hypertensive Crisis (American Heart Association)
  * Isolated Systolic Hypertension: A Health Concern? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Secondary Hypertension (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Genetics

  * Genetics Home Reference: aldosterone-producing adenoma ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: hypertension ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: pseudohypoaldosteronism type 2 ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Health Check Tools

  * Test Your Blood Pressure IQ (American Heart Association)

## Videos and Tutorials

  * Blood pressure ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Hypertension - overview ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Statistics and Research

  * High Blood Pressure Facts (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Preventing Stroke Deaths (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
  * Snapshot: Blood Pressure in the U.S. ![Infographic](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Infographic.gif) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Systolic Blood Pressure Intervention Trial (SPRINT) Study ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hypertension ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Prehypertension ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: A pilot study on efficacy and safety of a new salt...
  * Article: A Community-Based Intervention for Managing Hypertension in Rural South Asia.
  * Article: Treating Hypertension in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease.
  * High Blood Pressure -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

  * Heart and Stroke Encyclopedia (American Heart Association)

## Find an Expert

  * American Heart Association
  * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

  * High Blood Pressure (Hypertension) (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)

## Teenagers

  * Hypertension (High Blood Pressure) (Nemours Foundation)

## Women

  * Menopause and High Blood Pressure: What's the Connection? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Older Adults

  * High Blood Pressure ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging) Also in Spanish
  * High Blood Pressure: Unique to Older Adults (AGS Foundation for Health in Aging)

## Patient Handouts

  * ACE inhibitors (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Blood pressure measurement (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Blood pressure monitors for home (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Controlling your high blood pressure (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Drug-induced hypertension (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * High blood pressure (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * High blood pressure - children (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * High blood pressure and eye disease (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * High blood pressure medications (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Hypertensive heart disease (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Low-salt diet (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Malignant hypertension (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Renovascular hypertension (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![High Blood Pressure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HighBloodPressure.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * ACE inhibitors
  * Aldosterone blood test
  * Blood pressure
  * Blood pressure measurement
  * Blood pressure monitors for home
  * Controlling your high blood pressure
  * Drug-induced hypertension
  * High blood pressure
  * High blood pressure - children
  * High blood pressure - infants

  * High blood pressure - what to ask your doctor
  * High blood pressure and eye disease
  * High blood pressure medications
  * Hypertension - overview
  * Hypertensive heart disease
  * Low-salt diet
  * Malignant hypertension
  * Renin blood test
  * Renovascular hypertension

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

  * Blood Pressure Medicines
  * DASH Eating Plan
  * High Blood Pressure in Pregnancy
  * How to Prevent High Blood Pressure
  * Low Blood Pressure

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on High Blood Pressure is the
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _High Blood
Pressure_

## NIH MedlinePlus Magazine

  * New Blood Pressure Guidelines: What You Need to Know
  * Updated Blood Pressure Guidelines: Lifestyle Changes are Key

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 15 November 2019 Topic last reviewed: 19 April 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

