

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

# NOFO: PS19-1901 Strengthening STD Prevention and Control for Health
Departments (STD PCHD)

Minus

Related Pages

![STD PCHD](/std/funding/images/stdPCHD-wide-WHITEBG-1500-large.png)

> In 2018 CDC announced the availability of fiscal year 2019 funds for a
> cooperative agreement for health departments to implement and strengthen STD
> prevention and control programs. The purpose of this NOFO is to prevent and
> control three major STDs: chlamydia, gonorrhea, and syphilis.

Priority strategies and activities include

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Conduct STD surveillance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Respond to STD-related outbreaks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Identify persons with STDs and link them and their partners to care and to treatment through targeted disease investigation and intervention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Promote CDC-recommended screening, diagnosis, and treatment practices among relevant providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Disseminate local data and information to the health care community and general public
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Monitor and develop STD-related policy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Develop and strengthen multi- sector partnerships to support STD prevention and control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Support HIV prevention goals and collaborate with health department HIV programs and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Analyze and use data for increased program insights and program improvement

This NOFO supports strategies and activities to: eliminate congenital
syphilis; prevent antibiotic resistant gonorrhea; reduce primary and secondary
syphilis; prevent STD-related pelvic inflammatory disease, ectopic pregnancy,
and infertility; address STD-related outbreaks; and reduce STD-related health
disparities. Priority populations for this NOFO include adolescents and young
adults, men who have sex with men, and pregnant women. More information is
available in the STD PCHD infographic pdf icon[PDF - 157 KB].

Award recipientspdf icon include state, local and territorial health
departments or their Bona Fide Agents. This includes the 50 states, the
District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Also included
are the local (county or city) health departments serving the following
metropolitan areas: Baltimore, MD; Chicago, IL; Los Angeles, CA; Philadelphia,
PA; New York City, NY; and San Francisco, CA.



### **Notices of Award were sent on or before December 20, 2018**

**For questions about the NOFO, please write to:  ** std_pchd@cdc.gov.

grid icon

Funding Tables

paper icon

Work Plan Templates

chat icon

Q&A about the NOFO

presentation icon

Recipient Resources

alert icon

General Information

Page last reviewed: October 25, 2018

Content source: Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention

home Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Diseases & Related Conditionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * HIV/AIDS & STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STDs & Infertility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STDs during Pregnancyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Detailed Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment and Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Risk and Oral Sex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Other STDsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Laboratory Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Life Stages and Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adolescents and Young Adultsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adolescents and Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adolescents and STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gay, Bisexual and Other MSMplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gay Men & STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Just Diagnosed?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Which STD Tests Should I Get?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Lowdown Infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Management & Evaluation Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Effective Interventions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gap Assessment Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Outbreak Response Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Congenital Syphilis HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Disseminated Gonococcal Infection HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gonorrhea with Reduced SusceptibilityÂ HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LGV HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Practical Use of Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Program Operations Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * S.P.A.C.E. Monkey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Data Management & Information Technologyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Generic Information Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * BPMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Partner Servicesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Internet Partner Services Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * VCAmon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CS Webinar Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Projects & Initiativesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD PCHDplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * National Disease Intervention Specialist (DIS) Recognition Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project (GISP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Health Equityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Community Approaches to Reducing STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Indian Health Service Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SDMB Contacts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tools & Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Brochuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Facts Brochures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ä¸­æ (Chinese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * KreyÃ²l (Haitian Creole)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ð ÑÑÑÐºÐ¸Ð¹ (Russian)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tiáº½ng ViÃªt (Vietnamese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Prevention Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Provider Pocket Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicated Content
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Videos and Podcastsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Letâs Talk About Sexual Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Safe in the City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Webinars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Widgets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Trainingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Prevention Coursesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Passport to Partner Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Advanced STD Intervention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Visual Case Analysis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Principles of STD Supervision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Intervention for Supervisors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Essentials of STD Supervision I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tailored Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Continuing Education Online
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SASSI â SAS Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD 101 in a Boxplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Script for _Sex in the City_ Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Clinical Slidesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Clinical Slides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD Picture Cardsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Picture Cards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Treatment and Screeningplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Drug Noticesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gemifloxacin 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Procaine Penicillin G Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Erythromycin (0.5%) Ophthalmic Ointment Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Expedited Partner Therapyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Gonorrhea Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Legal Status of EPT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Legal/Policy Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Prenatal Syphilis Screening Laws
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * STD QCS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additional Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About the Division of STD Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Fundingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Disease Intervention Training Centers (DITC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * National Network of STD Clinical Prevention Training Centers (NNPTC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * SSuN: Program and other NOFO Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Strategic Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Archive

STDs Home Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Genital Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * HIV/AIDS & STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * STDs & Infertility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * STDs & Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Other STDs

Follow STD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Social_round_twitter twitter STD on Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Social_round_facebook facebook STD on Facebook

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

grid_01  paper_01  chat_01  presentation_01 alert_01  PDF

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

