https://www.cdc.gov/me-cfs/me-cfs-children/factsheet-parents-guardians.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/me-cfs/me-cfs-children/factsheet-parents-guardians.html    
                Description: None    
                Keywords: chronic fatigue syndrome myalgic encephalomyelitis fatigue post-exertional malaise orthostatic intolerance dizziness lightheadedness sleep problems pain memory problems concentration problems activity management, Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# ME/CFS in Children: Fact Sheet for Parents/Guardians

en EspaÃ±ol

Minus

Related Pages

When a child has myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS),
it can be very challenging for both the child and parents/guardians. This fact
sheet offers information for parents or guardians that can help them deal with
the ways ME/CFS may be affecting their child. For the purposes of this fact
sheet, adolescents are defined as children between 11 and 18 years old and
"parent" refers to adults who are either parents or guardians.

**Helping Your Child Manage Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
(ME/CFS)**

Myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS) is a complex
illness that can be challenging for parents and children. Following are some
tips to help you in dealing with your child's illness.

**_Be an Advocate for Your Child_**

Take an active role in managing your child's illness and encourage him or her
to do the same. This can allow you to make the best possible choices for his
or her health.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Learn as much as you can about ME/CFS and how it affects your child.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Talk with your child's healthcare provider about your questions and concerns.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Speak with school staff, such as teachers, guidance counselors, and school nurses, about concerns you have with your child in school.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Work closely with teachers, counselors, and other school staff to develop an action plan and find resources to help your child succeed in school.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Educate others involved in your child's life about ME/CFS, such as school staff, other family members, and your child's peers. When people know more about this illness, they may be better able to help and accommodate your child. This is particularly important at your child's school.

**_Be Familiar with School Resources_**

ME/CFS can affect an adolescent's or younger child's experience at school.
Fatigue, pain, and concentration or memory problems can make it hard for a
child to complete homework assignments. It may also be difficult for them to
participate in the classroom or attend school on a regular basis. With some
planning, teachers and parents can help students with ME/CFS to have a
successful school experience.

Evaluation is an important part of identifying the needs of a student with
ME/CFS. It can guide the development of programs to help them succeed in
school. It is important to know that:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Receiving a ME/CFS diagnosis will not immediately qualify a child for services. A child will need to be further evaluated and identified as needing services at school.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Evaluations will need to be conducted by a team from the school. This team will assess the student through in-class observations, tests, interviews, and conversations with teachers and parents.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Parents will need to give consent before a student undergoes an evaluation.

Additional services could include an Individualized Education Plan (IEP) or a
504 Plan. A 504 plan lists your child's disability and how the school can
help. An IEP is a legal document that tells the school what it must do to help
meet your child's needs. These programs are developed with help from
administrators, teachers, and parents.

More information on IEPs can be found at the Center for Parent Information and
Resources (CPIR) websiteexternal icon and information on 504 plans is
available on the U.S. Department of Education websiteexternal icon. It is
important to work with your child's school to understand and explore these
plans.

**_Participate in Family and Social Activities_**

Having a chance to socialize is just as important for your child as having a
chance to succeed in school. With limited social involvement inside and
outside of school, students with ME/CFS may feel isolated from their friends
and peers. It can be challenging for families to be involved in social events
or family activities. However, these activities are essential for the well-
being of the child and family.

It is important to talk to your child's school about opportunities for your
child to interact with peers. For example, the school could allow your child
to participate in after-school activities or attend lunch periods. Some
families may find it helpful to connect with support groups to talk with other
families who have a child with ME/CFS.

Print

![Helping Your Child Manage Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
\(ME/CFS\)—Parents and Guardians cover page](/me-cfs/images/me-cfs-children-
parents-small.jpg)

Helping Your Child Manage Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
(ME/CFS)--Parents and Guardians

pdf icon[PDF - 2 pages]

Page last reviewed: July 12, 2018

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of High-
Consequence Pathogens and Pathology (DHCPP)

home ME/CFS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What is ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Possible Causes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Symptoms and Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ME/CFS in Childrenplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms and Diagnosis of ME/CFS in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment of ME/CFS in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ME/CFS in Children Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Healthcare Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Parents/Guardians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Education Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDCâs ME/CFS Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosis and Treatment of ME/CFS Syndrome: A Systematic Review of the Evidence
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Meetings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Multi-site Clinical Assessment of CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Wichita Clinical Study Data Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Living with ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Andrewâs Story 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Annâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lizâs Story 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Marleneâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Information for Healthcare Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Presentation and Clinical Course of ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prognosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Etiology and Pathophysiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * IOM 2015 Diagnostic Criteria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Proposed Approach to ME/CFS Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other Conditions for Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Comorbid Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Factors Complicating the Diagnosis of ME/CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinical Care of Patients with ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treating the Most Disruptive Symptoms First and Preventing Worsening of Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Additional Strategies for Living with ME/CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Monitoring the Use of All Medicines and Supplements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Severely Affected Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Understanding History of Case Definitions and Criteria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Disability and ME-CFS

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

