https://www.cdc.gov/features/cfsawarenessday/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/features/cfsawarenessday/index.html    
                Description: May 12 is ME/CFS and Fibromyalgia International Awareness Day.    
                Keywords: CDC Features,  myalgic encephalomyelitis,  ME,  chronic fatigue syndrome,  CFS,  fibromyalgia, Outbreaks, Food Safety    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

CDC Features

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# May 12 is ME/CFS and Fibromyalgia International Awareness Day

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

![Large group of diverse
people](/features/cfsawarenessday/cfsawarenessday_456px.jpg)

May 12 is ME/CFS International Awareness Day, a day to bring attention to how
ME/CFS affects those suffering from the illness.

Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (ME/CFS) is a serious,
long-term illness that affects many body systems. Often, people with ME/CFS
may not be able to do their usual activities. People with ME/CFS have severe
fatigue and sleep problems. ME/CFS may get worse after people with the illness
try to do as much as they want or need to do. This symptom is known as post-
exertional malaise (PEM). Other symptoms can include problems with thinking
and concentrating, pain, and dizziness.

How to Participate in ME/CFS Awareness Day

![Blue ribbon](/features/cfsawarenessday/cfsawarenessday_a100px.png)

ME/CFS Awareness Day is being observed around the world in many different
cities and countries. This day helps bring awareness to ME/CFS patients,
families, caregivers, and researchers. You can show your support by a range of
activities:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Wearing the color blue on May 12, 2019.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Looking for and supporting local ME/CFS events in your community.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Considering planning an event if there is not one in your community.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Sharing your personal stories about ME/CFS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Telling a neighbor or friend about ME/CFS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Learning more about ME/CFS (see links below).

### Get Informed, Get Diagnosed, and Get Help

ME/CFS remains a poorly understood illness - there is no known cause and many
people who have ME/CFS have not been diagnosed. We have posted a video that
focuses on the daily challenges of ME/CFS from the perspective of the patient,
including the most pertinent challenge of having to miss important life
events. We hope this video raises awareness about how debilitating ME/CFS can
be. You can watch this video here.

Additionally, the updated website has a section dedicated to sharing stories
from patients with ME/CFS. The "Voice of the Patient" project allows patients
to share their experiences with ME/CFS. Read stories each patient shares in
his or her own words.

Join us in taking action to raise awareness about ME/CFS and lend support to
those who have been affected by this illness.

### What Can You Do?

**Educate.** Knowledge is key to raising awareness about ME/CFS. For this
awareness day, take time to learn more about this illness by visiting any of
the links below. Share your personal stories about ME/CFS and take the time to
listen to others' stories.

**Support.** During this awareness day, there are many ways you can show
support. Wear the color blue on May 12, 2019, to raise awareness and show
support to patients, families, caregivers, and researchers of ME/CFS. Use
social media to spread knowledge about ME/CFS and to highlight individuals who
suffer from this illness.

### What Can Healthcare Providers Do?

A new section of CDC's ME/CFS website for healthcare providers incorporates
recommendations from the 2015 Institute of Medicine (IOM) reportexternal icon.
In addition to the updated diagnostic criteria, the report also provides
healthcare professionals with insight into the challenges and barriers of
caring for patients with ME/CFS.

**Listen.** ME/CFS is a complex, real illness that is difficult to diagnose.
Each patient is unique, and requires an individualized treatment program that
best meets the needs of their illness. Listen to them and communicate with
them in order to deliver effective care.

**Empathize.** ME/CFS changes people's ability to perform daily tasks that
were previously easy to complete. The illness can last for years and sometimes
leads to serious disability. Communicate with patients and show them that you
understand and believe them.

**Treat symptoms effectively.** Helping patients get relief from symptoms and
improve their quality of life are the main goals of treatment. Familiarize
yourself with the illness using the resources provided on the CDC website,
under the Information for Healthcare Providers tab. A new course on ME/CFS can
be found at Medscape's websiteexternal icon.

For pediatric ME/CFS, the fact sheet for healthcare providers can be found on
CDC's ME/CFS website. Please look for upcoming fact sheets for healthcare
providers on the website.

### What Can Families Do?

**Speak up for your Loved One.** Take an active role in helping your family
member manage their illness. Talk with your family's healthcare provider about
your loved one's needs and concerns. Educate people involved in your loved
one's life about ME/CFS so that they can better understand when accommodations
are needed. If you are a parent of a child living with ME/CFS, speak with your
child's educators and counselors to ask questions, express concerns, and
initiate educational support.

**Educate yourself.** Learn as much as you can about ME/CFS and about how the
illness affects your family member. Fatigue, pain, and concentration or memory
issues can make it difficult for those living with ME/CFS to participate in
daily activities. Children with ME/CFS often cannot attend school. Take
advantage of the resources in your community in order to accommodate your
child and his or her unique illness.

**Socialize.** With limited social involvement, those with ME/CFS may feel
isolated from their friends and peers. It can be challenging for families to
be involved in social events or family activities. Social activities are
essential for the well-being of patients and their families.

For more information about ME/CFS in children, the fact sheet for parents and
guardians can be found on CDC's ME/CFS website.

### What Can Schools Do?

**Understand.** Educate staff about ME/CFS in order to empathize with students
suffering from the illness. Each child with ME/CFS may experience different
symptoms and the duration of their symptoms may differ as well. Take time to
understand each student's individual illness and challenges.

**Collaborate.** A key to helping students with ME/CFS is to work as a team
with their teachers, parents, administrators, other education professionals,
and healthcare professionals. This team approach can provide flexibility with
educational plans and school resources that are customized to target and
reflect the student's needs.

**Accommodate.** Because ME/CFS is a complex disorder that affects how
students learn and participate in school, teachers and administrators may want
to be creative in developing strategies to foster an encouraging learning
environment for their students with ME/CFS. Accommodations might include time
extension on exams and assignments, scheduled rest periods throughout the
school day, combined school and home tutoring, and more.

For more information about ME/CFS in students, the fact sheet for education
professionals can be found on CDC's ME/CFS website.

More Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC ME/CFS Website
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * NINDS/CDC Common Data Elements (CDEs) for Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (ME/CFS)external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Disability and ME/CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC's Public Health Matters Blog: America's Hidden Health Crisis: Hope for Those Who Suffer from ME/CFS 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * NIH Director's Blog: Moving Toward Answers in ME/CFS, March 2017external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * NIH ME/CFS websiteexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FDA Voice of the Patientpdf iconexternal icon [PDF - 267KB]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ME/CFS clinical trialsexternal icon

Page last reviewed: May 9, 2019

Content source:

National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, Division of
High Consequence Pathogens and Pathology

home CDC Features

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Diseases & Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Emergency Preparedness & Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Environmental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Healthy Living
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Injury, Violence & Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Life Stages & Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travelersâ Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Workplace Safety & Health

Features Media

Social_round_rss RSS Sign up for Features

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

![Step It Up! Surgeon General's Call to Action to Promote Walking and Walkable
Communities](/physicalactivity/images/cta/CDC-web-button-v5.jpg)
![24/7](/features/images/24-7_i150x120html.gif)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

