https://www.cdc.gov/me-cfs/me-cfs-children/children-treatment.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/me-cfs/me-cfs-children/children-treatment.html    
                Description: Learn how ME/CFS affects kids.    
                Keywords: me/cfs, kids, me/cfs in kids, Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome, Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# Treatment of ME/CFS in Children

en EspaÃ±ol

Minus

Related Pages

On This Pages

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Post-exertional malaise (PEM)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Dizziness and Lightheadedness 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Sleep Problems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Problems Concentrating, Thinking, and Remembering
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Depression, Stress, and Anxiety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pain

As for adults, there is no cure or approved treatment for myalgic
encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS) in children. However, some
symptoms can be treated or managed. Treating these symptoms might provide
relief for some patients with ME/CFS but not others. Other strategies, like
learning new ways to manage activity, can also be helpful.

Patients, their families, and healthcare providers need to work together to
decide which symptom causes the most problems. They should discuss the
possible benefits and harms of any treatment plans, including medicines and
other therapies. A treatment plan for a child who might have ME/CFS should
focus on the most disruptive symptoms first.

### Symptoms that healthcare providers might **try to address are:**

#### Post-exertional malaise (PEM)

Post-exertional malaise (PEM) is the worsening of symptoms after even minor
physical, mental or emotional exertion. The symptoms typically get worse 12 to
48 hours after the activity and can last for days, weeks, or even longer.

PEM can be addressed by  **activity management** , also called  **pacing**.
The goal of pacing is for children with ME/CFS to learn to balance rest and
activity to avoid PEM flare-ups caused by exertion that they cannot tolerate.
To do this, patients need to  **find their individual limits for mental and
physical activity.  **Then they need to plan activity and rest to stay within
these limits. Some patients and doctors refer to staying within these limits
as staying within the " **energy envelope. "** The limits may be different for
each patient. Keeping activity and symptom diaries may help patients find
their personal limits, especially early on in the illness.

Patients with ME/CFS need to avoid 'push-and-crash' cycles through carefully
managing activity. "Push-and-crash" cycles are when someone with ME/CFS is
having a good day and tries to push to do more than they would normally
attempt (do too much, crash, rest, start to feel a little better, do too much
once again). This can then lead to a "crash" (worsening of ME/CFS symptoms).

Any activity or exercise plan for children with ME/CFS needs to be carefully
designed with input from each patient. While vigorous aerobic exercise is
beneficial for many chronic illnesses,  **patients with ME/CFS do not tolerate
such exercise routines**. Standard exercise recommendations for healthy people
can be harmful for patients with ME/CFS. However, it is important that
patients with ME/CFS undertake activities that they can tolerate.

For patients with ME/CFS, it is important to find a balance between inactivity
and excessive activity, which can make symptoms worse. This means a new way of
thinking about daily activities. For example, daily chores and school
activities may need to be broken down into smaller steps.  
A symptom diary can be very helpful for managing ME/CFS. Keeping daily track
of how patients feel and what patients do may help to find ways to make
activities easier.

Rehabilitation specialists or exercise physiologists who know ME/CFS may help
patients with adjusting to life with ME/CFS. Patients who have learned to
listen to their bodies might benefit from carefully increasing exercise to
improve fitness and avoid deconditioning. However, exercise is not a cure for
ME/CFS.

Parents/guardians and doctors of children with ME/CFS can work with teachers
and school administrators to adjust the school load for children with ME/CFS.
While it is true that exercise can benefit children with certain chronic
illnesses, children with ME/CFS should avoid activity that makes their
symptoms worse.

Top of Page

#### Dizziness and Lightheadedness (Orthostatic Intolerance)

Some children and adolescents with ME/CFS might also have symptoms of
orthostatic intolerance that are triggered when-or made worse by-standing or
sitting upright. These symptoms can include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequent dizziness and lightheadedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Changes in vision (blurred vision, seeing white or black spots)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Weakness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Feeling like your heart is beating too fast or too hard, fluttering, or skipping a beat

For patients with these symptoms, their doctor will check their heart rate and
blood pressure, and may recommend they see a specialist, like a cardiologist
or neurologist.

For children with ME/CFS who do not have heart or blood vessel disease, their
doctor might suggest patients increase daily fluid and salt intake and use
support stockings. If symptoms do not improve, prescription medication can be
considered.

Top of Page

#### Sleep Problems

Good sleep habits are important for all people, including those with ME/CFS.
When children try these tips but are still unable to sleep, their doctor might
recommend taking medicine to help with sleep.

Children might continue to feel unrefreshed even after the medications help
them to get a full night of sleep. If so, they should consider seeing a sleep
specialist. Most people with sleep disorders, like sleep apnea (symptoms
include brief pausing in breathing during sleep) and narcolepsy symptoms
include excessive daytime sleepiness, respond to therapy. However, for
children with ME/CFS, not all symptoms may go away.

Top of Page

#### Problems Concentrating, Thinking, and Remembering

Children with ME/CFS may have problems paying attention, thinking,
remembering, and responding. For instance, after becoming ill it may be hard
for children to take notes and listen to their teacher at the same time.

For children with ME/CFS who have concentration problems, some doctors have
prescribed stimulant medications, like those typically used to treat
Attention-Deficit / Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). While stimulants might help
improve concentration for some patients with ME/CFS, they might lead to the
"push-and-crash" cycle and worsen symptoms. "Push-and-crash" cycles are when
someone with ME/CFS is having a good day and tries to push to do more than
they would normally attempt (do too much, crash, rest, start to feel a little
better, do too much once again).

Top of Page

#### Depression, Stress, and Anxiety

Adjusting to any chronic illness can sometimes lead to symptoms of depression
and anxiety. Anxiety in children with ME/CFS is not caused by the illness
itself. It can happen because of the changes the child must make to live with
the illness. When healthcare providers are concerned about a patient's
psychological condition, they may recommend seeing a mental health
professional.

Counseling may help to reduce stress and some symptoms of depression and
anxiety, like sleep problems and headaches. Some children might benefit from
antidepressants and anti-anxiety medications. However, doctors should use
caution in prescribing these medications. Some drugs used to treat depression
have other effects that might worsen other ME/CFS symptoms and cause side
effects.

Some children with ME/CFS might benefit from trying techniques like deep
breathing and muscle relaxation, massage, and movement therapies (like
stretching, yoga, and tai chi). These can reduce stress and anxiety, and
promote a sense of well-being.

Although treating depression and anxiety can ease mental and emotional
distress in some patients and can be very beneficial, it is not a cure for
ME/CFS.

#### Pain

Children with ME/CFS often have headaches and stomach pains. Doctors may want
to check for food allergies and vision problems.

Gentle massage and heat may relieve pain for some patients. Parents/guardians
should always talk to their child's healthcare provider before trying any
medication. Doctors may recommend trying over-the-counter pain-relievers, like
acetaminophen or ibuprofen.

Top of Page

It is important that healthcare providers talk with family members and
children about the child's lifestyle and behaviors to find out how the illness
impacts the child's daily life. For example, the child's lack of energy may be
because of ME/CFS or caused by normal changes in sleep cycles that often
happen in puberty. Trying to understand what is causing the symptoms is
important because it affects the treatment plan for the child.

Page last reviewed: July 12, 2018

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of High-
Consequence Pathogens and Pathology (DHCPP)

home ME/CFS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What is ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Possible Causes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Symptoms and Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ME/CFS in Childrenplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms and Diagnosis of ME/CFS in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment of ME/CFS in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ME/CFS in Children Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Healthcare Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Parents/Guardians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Education Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDCâs ME/CFS Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosis and Treatment of ME/CFS Syndrome: A Systematic Review of the Evidence
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Meetings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Multi-site Clinical Assessment of CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Wichita Clinical Study Data Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Living with ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Andrewâs Story 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Annâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lizâs Story 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Marleneâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Information for Healthcare Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Presentation and Clinical Course of ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prognosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Etiology and Pathophysiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * IOM 2015 Diagnostic Criteria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Proposed Approach to ME/CFS Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other Conditions for Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Comorbid Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Factors Complicating the Diagnosis of ME/CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinical Care of Patients with ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treating the Most Disruptive Symptoms First and Preventing Worsening of Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Additional Strategies for Living with ME/CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Monitoring the Use of All Medicines and Supplements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Severely Affected Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Understanding History of Case Definitions and Criteria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Disability and ME-CFS

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

