https://blogs.cdc.gov/publichealthmatters/2017/05/me-cfs/Link: https://blogs.cdc.gov/publichealthmatters/2017/05/me-cfs/    
                Description: CDC - Blogs - Public Health Matters Blog &#8211; ME/CFS: Making strides to enhance the lives of those living with ME/CFS - Sharing our stories on preparing for and responding to public health events    
                Keywords: public health, CDC, zombie, Khan, emergency, disease    
                            

Skip directly to search Skip directly to A to Z list Skip directly to
navigation Skip directly to page options Skip directly to site content

![Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People](/TemplatePackage/3.0/images/masthead_subpage.svg)
![Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People](/TemplatePackage/3.0/images/masthead_1-col.svg)

Start of Search Controls

Search Form Controls

TOPIC ONLY

Search The CDC

cancel submit

CDC A-Z Index

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * MENU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC A-Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * SEARCH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * #

Start of Search Controls

Search Form Controls

TOPIC ONLY

Search The CDC

cancel submit

## Public Health Matters Blog

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

### Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Disclaimers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Center for Preparedness and Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Our Newsletter

### Search This Blog

Search for:

####   Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Enter Email Address What's this?Submit What's this? Submit Button

# ME/CFS: Making strides to enhance the lives of those living with ME/CFS

Posted on May 12, 2017 by Blog Administrator

Recommend on Facebook Tweet
![Share](/TemplatePackage/3.0/images/social/addthis-32.png)ShareCompartir

_Post last updated:Â May 14, 2019_

![Millions Missing Atl Sept
2016](https://blogs.cdc.gov/publichealthmatters/files/2017/05/Millions-
Missing-Atl-Sept-2016.jpg)

How would you feel if you were living your life and you suddenly came down
with what seemed to be the flu?Â What if this flu-like illness seemed to go on
forever, and you never returned to your normal self? What if your ability to
participate in your regular physical or mental activities caused you extreme
fatigue and it took you longer than normal to recover?

What if these occurrences persisted for months or years? What if you were
unable to take care of your family, couldnât go to work, woke up feeling
like you hadnât slept at all, and you were confined to your bed for months?
Could you imagine what your life would be like? What about if this happened to
your child?

Then imagine that you went to your doctor, and they told you thereâs no
treatment and no cure for your symptoms? What if your doctor told you that you
were making up your symptoms or that what you were experiencing was all in
your head? Sadly, this is reality for many people living with Myalgic
Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (ME/CFS).

The Institute of Medicine (IOM) (now the National Academy of Medicine)
describes ME/CFS as a disabling and complex illness. Research has shown women
and people ages 40 â 60 are mainly affected; however, ME/CFS does not
discriminate across sex, age, or racial backgrounds, and anyone (men, women,
and children) can suffer from it.Â An estimated 825,000-2.5 million Americans
are affected by this illness and ME/CFS continues to be largely invisible in
the U.S. Over 80 percent of people with ME/CFS have not been diagnosed. This
âinvisibleâ illness costs the U.S. about $18-51 billion annually in
medical costs and earning loss.

As CDC commemorates the 27th annual ME/CFS and Fibromyalgia Day, we reflect on
the reality that there are still millions of people living with this
debilitating illness undiagnosed. Those living with ME/CFS know all too well
how slowly research has progressed. Yet, there is a growing sense of optimism
that progress is being made.

Following a 2015 report from IOM, stakeholders began to work together to give
clinicians and researchers guidance for diagnosis and tools to fully
characterize the many facets of the illness. The first set of ME/CFS Common
Data Elements (CDEs) are now available due to the Centers for Disease Control
andÂ the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (CDC/NINDS)
project and innumerable hours of stakeholder input. These CDEs are important
tools to help researchers collect, store and share information about the
illness experience of participants in their studies.

ME/CFS expert clinicians are coming to consensus around best practices for
laboratory testing and drug therapies to treat symptoms. The National
Institutes for Health held a research conference in April 2019, bringing new
and experienced investigators together to share ideas and stimulate research.
lt is important for the medical community to envision ME/CFS as a medical
mystery that needs to and **_can_** be solved, and that requires the attention
of the brightest and the best clinical minds.

We can start to envision a future when a patient with ME/CFS will consult a
physician who will be able to provide a diagnosis, explain the possible course
of the illness Â and prescribe targeted therapy. While we arenât there yet,
this is a vision we see as a possible future with continued progress.

Over the course of the past year, CDC has continued its efforts to promote
continuous ME/CFS research, surveillance, and comprehensive educational
resources for clinicians, as well as for the general public. Activities in
this effort include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Partnering with local and state health departments to integrate an ME/CFS optional module into the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS). This partnership will aid in each stateâs effort to collect ME/CFS data and learn more about the burden of ME/CFS in their state.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Partnering with the National Association of School Nurses, to collect data related to conditions causing excessive absenteeism, as well as educate school nurses about ME/CFS in younger people. This will enhance our ME/CFS surveillance effort among pediatric and adolescent populations.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Partnering with Kaiser Permanente, through the Vaccine Safety Datalink program, to identify ME/CFS cases among the managed care organizationâs patient population. This program will determine how to identify ME/CFS using electronic medical records and the process will help educate the medical providers in the managed care organization about ME/CFS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Partnering with the Georgia chapter of the American Association of Pediatrics to ensure its members are properly educated about ME/CFS. This partnership will provide CDCâs ME/CFS program an opportunity to continue its educational outreach with local organizations with hopes of expanding to additional medical professional organizations at the national level.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Continuing its research efforts through the Multisite Clinical Assessment of ME/CFS research project. Engagement with study participants is ongoing with the hope of developing a long-term follow-up or registry system.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Continuing to work with various stakeholders in developing educational materials for CDCâs ME/CFS website or in other digital formats to educate the public and healthcare professionals. In addition to incorporating the 2015 IOM recommendations on ME/CFS, the current website includes factsheets and patient stories.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Publishing continuing education modules to ensure clinicians are educated and prepared to properly diagnose and treat patients living with ME/CFS. The continuing education module prepared by Medscape titled âDiagnosing ME/CFS:Â The Experts Weigh Inâ Â is part of a series of CDC-sponsored continuing medical education courses on ME/CFS .

As we commemorate ME/CFS International Awareness Day, CDC continues to work to
promote awareness and education around ME/CFS.

Posted on May 12, 2017 by Blog Administrator

Categories General, public health

Tags CFS, Chronic Fatigue Syndrome, ME, Myalgic Encephalomyelitis

* * *

###  30 comments on "ME/CFS: Making strides to enhance the lives of those
living with ME/CFS"

Comments listed below are posted by individuals not associated with CDC,
unless otherwise stated. These comments do not represent the official views of
CDC, and CDC does not guarantee that any information posted by individuals on
this site is correct, and disclaims any liability for any loss or damage
resulting from reliance on any such information. Read more about our comment
policy ».

**Loetta** says:

May 12, 2017 at 11:52 am

It has been thirty one years since I fell ill along with many of my travel
abroad college class mates with an illness that changed my life and prospects
forever. Still there are very few medical text books, and medical school
curriculum that include accurate and appropriate information about this
illness. Doctors need the information about this illness to help us. And
Doctors need a national registry to report us as we are found. After thirty
one years, there is no tracking mechanism where the government understands how
the illness has changed me or my travel companions, or more than one million
other patients (many of which have never been formally diagnosed). Thank you
for posting on this very important day of awareness. I look forward to seeing
changes to the CDC website, and handling of this debilitating understudied
mis-treated illness.

**Cort Johnson** says:

May 12, 2017 at 12:36 pm

Thanks for recognizing this important day for ME/CFS and for all your good
work.

**Dr Mark C** says:

May 12, 2017 at 1:18 pm

We greatly appreciate CDC ME-CFS support.

Norway tracks ME/CFS well. Why not CDC? This "Forgotten Plague" that is much
more common than Zika, Ebola, West Nile Polio is still not tracked by CDC to
my knowledge, which is gross neglect, esp as diagnostics are being developed.

Please track this very real disease that affects over 1 million in US and work
with NIH to end three decades of discrimination against women and ME and fully
fund, based on disease burden, $200M/year for R&D at NIH, CDC. Anything less
is gross discrimination. We do greatly appreciate the current progress, but
HHS must fully fund M.E. NOW !

**Jan** says:

May 12, 2017 at 6:10 pm

Hi, thanks for the attempt at helping with awareness. Your paragraph
description at the top is helpful.

To be honest, I would prefer CDC not conduct any education efforts until the
factual errors on CDC's website have been corrected and CDC has stopped
promoting research with grave methodological errors and inclusion criteria
that has been correctly identified as being useless.

I know it is CDC's position that it's important to include all fatigue
patients because everyone is "similarly ill", but this is a tautology. Sick
people are sick. Doubtless if people with correctly-diagnosed Lupus,
scleroderma, pituitary disease, thyroid disease, cancer, multiple sclerosis,
major depression, endometriosis, and so on were asked the same vague
questions, many of them would also be similarly ill.

Please do a better job updating your website and educational materials.

**Shirley Bell** says:

May 13, 2017 at 6:34 am

Please educate physicians about this illness.

**nancy** says:

May 13, 2017 at 10:55 am

What is ignored is the devastation this brings to couples. Most marriages
fail. There is zero spousal support. For the spousal caregiver/advocate, it's
a special kind of hell where there is no support group, no counselor that
really gets it, and very little support from friends or families.

For me, the economy tanked about a year after the husband got sick -- and it
took 8 years to get him diagnosed. So from 2007 - 2014, he only knew he was
sick all the time and the doctors just looked dumbfounded. I was his only hope
for survival… and since my contract ended, it was also hard to find a
replacement job. Being honest with employers and saying that sometimes i had
to work from home was not helping. I couldn't win for losing…  
Going through this as a couple has wreaked havoc on any hope of surviving it.

There has to be a way to help families as a whole.

**diane Lndeman** says:

May 13, 2017 at 2:52 pm

Next month(June 10, 2017) will be MY 40th YEAR OF SURVIVAL. I am proud of that
as it has NOT been easy. Still am hopeful after all these years.

**Stuart Shaw** says:

May 13, 2017 at 4:11 pm

I was just diagnosed with M.E a couple years ago? I am pretty new to it and
also have TBI which I have had since 1963. Although I am in Scotland I still
want all the info on this debilitating illness? The sleep disturbance and
muscle and joint pain, along with the other things are ruining my marriage.

**Georgina** says:

May 13, 2017 at 8:00 pm

It is so nice to see the NIH and CDC being supportive. However, much of the
CDC site hasn't been updated since 2012 and it would help patients a lot if it
was improved.

**Gloria Jacobs** says:

May 14, 2017 at 4:37 pm

I have had ME/CFS for 22 years and have been treated terribly by so many
people.  
Doctors have said that I am crazy and have turned their backs on me when I
needed compassion and help. One doctor told me to get out of his office before
he called the police because I needed my medication to help with the symptoms
of this cruel disease. I went to psychologists and did what they told me to do
and I got severely ill from the so called treatment. The names I have been
called because people had no idea what I was going through even though I told
them how sick I am. When I mentioned Chronic Fatigue Syndrome the conversation
changed completely.  
I have read everything that I could get my hands on to try to educate my
family and doctors. I have been telling doctors how to treat me for decades.
It would mean the world to me if I could get some compassion and understanding
of how horrible this disease is for me and so many people.  
I have finally been reading some accurate information about ME/CFS and I can't
help but cry because it's been such a long and hard life just living with this
disease.  
Please continue to search for the help we patients so desperately need. I
don't know anyone that has this disease that wouldn't love to work, travel and
live an active life.

**phil** says:

May 15, 2017 at 11:38 am

It is great - Thank u so much!!! please keep on with it and help us out.

**Dorothy Camenzind** says:

May 15, 2017 at 11:48 pm

Thank you Dr. Unger for this outstanding blog on May 12th, ME/CFS
International Awareness Day. Your photos and your description begins to paint
an accurate image of the devastation of this disease. Those suffering and the
families affected greatly appreciate this step in changing the tragic history
of this disease. Thank you.

**Kate McCurdy** says:

May 17, 2017 at 9:10 am

My beautiful friend Liz's photograph headlines this ME/CFS blogsite. It took
everything she had to attend the 2016 International Awareness Day where the
photograph was taken, and cost her months in bed following the event. I pray
that one day soon Liz's medical community will find a solution to her decades
long medical nightmare. Until then, I am glad that forums like this exist.
Thank you for raising awareness and sharing what IS KNOWN about ME/CFS.

**Jeff** says:

May 17, 2017 at 2:35 pm

It would be outstanding that you plan to improve medical student and doctor
training on how to diagnose ME/CFS.

It took dozens of doctors and 37 years for my diagnosis. This is unacceptable,
and an appalling failure reflecting poorly on the CDC.

Remaining undiagnosed for so long robbed me of any chance to manage my
symptoms and live a reasonable quality of life.

**Kyumon Murrell** says:

May 17, 2017 at 4:08 pm

Great article!

**Melanie** says:

May 23, 2017 at 12:12 pm

Thank you for supporting the cause of increasing knowledge of ME/CFS. As
individuals, family members, friends, and potential taxpayers, improved
identification of, treatment for and potential cure of ME/CFS would have an
overwhelming impact - potentially millions of us back to work and spending
money in our economy to spend time with our loved ones. Perhaps one of us
could be able to return to work and find the cure to cancer, return to work
and brook peace within the Middle East; return to work and discover the
greatest secret of our universe. No one will never know what we are missing
until we are able to show ourselves in society again or be reliable in our
physical and mental presence at work and in our families. Your work would be
curing people who want to become productive again! As ME/CFS survivors, our
lives would be for ever changed. And cured, we could reclaim our place in the
world to help improve it!

**Freda** says:

July 11, 2017 at 12:24 am

Gotta love the IOM clinical criteria….with sufficient rest most of the
symptoms gradually disappear leaving the core symptoms as per the IOM
criteria. Excessive exertion and wham bam back come the ICC and CCC criteria
symptoms. Great to see that the IOM recognises the core issues and isn't blind
sided by collecting symptoms.

**Diane** says:

August 9, 2017 at 4:18 pm

31 years with ME/CFS robbed me of so many wonderful things in life. Things
like attending many of my children's school functions when they were growing
up; serving my family, community, and church; and going back to college, just
to name a few.

When I saw the new CDC page here entitled "Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic
Fatigue Syndrome" I was moved to tears. Thank you, thank you! I am so grateful
to all the clinicians and patient advocates who have been relentless in their
endeavors to bring awareness and promote research of this devastating and
horribly misunderstood illness.

Even if we don't have all the answers just yet, to remove the stigma of our
disease means so much to those of us who have been living in the shadows for
decades.

**Carole Morgan** says:

August 17, 2017 at 5:59 pm

My 29-year-old grandson was just diagnosed with ME/CFS, and the whole family
is devastated. Loretta mentioned that she and many of her travel abroad
classmates fell ill with the disease. My grandson was a Marine who served in
Afghanistan. Could he have caught it there? Is it something you catch, or is
it something that lies dormant in your system, like my auto-immune arthritis?
-- Morgan

**Blog Administrator** says:

August 22, 2017 at 10:10 am

Carole-

Weâre very sorry to hear about your grandsonâs diagnosis. Scientists have
not yet identified what causes myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue
syndrome (ME/CFS). ME/CFS is a complex illness, and it is possible that it has
more than one cause, meaning that patients with ME/CFS could have illness
resulting from different causes. In addition, it is possible that, for some or
all people, two or more triggers might work together to cause ME/CFS.

People with ME/CFS often have their illness begin in a way that reminds them
of getting the flu. This has made researchers suspect an infection may trigger
ME/CFS. In addition, about one in ten people who become infected with Epstein-
Barr virus, Ross River virus, or Coxiella burnetti will develop a set of
symptoms that meet the criteria for ME/CFS. People with these infections who
had severe symptoms are more likely than those with mild symptoms to later
develop ME/CFS. But not all people with ME/CFS have had these infections.

Adjusting to a chronic, debilitating illness can be difficult for patients and
their loved ones. More information about ME/CFS that might be helpful is
available at: https://www.cdc.gov/me-cfs/index.html. CDC continues to work
with clinicians and other partners to advance understanding of this complex
illness.

**Connie Fullmer** says:

September 15, 2017 at 12:59 pm

Recently, on yet another sleepless night, I saw a statement on TV on one of
their ticker tapes at the bottom "protein found in the blood of Chronic
Fatigue Syndrome sufferers". I have not been able to find any info on this.
Does the CDC have any new info for us this new discovery?

**Kathi** says:

October 6, 2017 at 9:34 am

I nearly cried when I happened on this page! I live in a sparsely-populated
state with no resources of any consequence for this illness. I have had to
educate my PA so that I can receive what little resources I have access to. I
was diagnosed with this illness 24 years ago and am permanently disabled. I
educated myself and, therefore, I do fairly well because my reality is my
ânew normalâ as opposed to what life was like before becoming ill. The
most frustrating part at this point in my life is the âignoranceâ of the
general public and, sadly, friends and family. Awareness is the key to
receiving the support we all desperately need, whether it is financial or
emotional, through support groups or insurance, or any services that might
lighten the load for those of us that are infected. Thank you for continuing
to persevere…for all of us!

**Vicki Knapp** says:

November 21, 2017 at 11:55 am

My 17 year old daughter has been diagnosed with CFS. Up until 6 months ago,
she was healthy, active, and energetic. She has been complaining of dizziness,
lightheadedness, and joint pain that has no rhyme or reason. It is not all of
her joints, just knees, neck, and hips. And she has days she does not have
pain. She has a headache every day and rarely, if ever, gets relief. She has
had depression and anxiety since she was 13 which started after her father and
I got divorced. She has been treated and continues treatment. Last year her
father passed away in June from a motor vehicle accident. She is very
stressed, she is keeping her grades up in school all of this time and
participates in a few extracurricular activities; however, she is exhausted
all of the time. She is very sad. She has seen many doctors including the
final doctor at Pittsburgh Children's Hospital. She is on an antidepressant,
she has a set bed time, she eats a regular diet, but she always feels awful.
After all of this information, I still do not know what to do with her to
help. Do I change her diet, does she need more extensive psychological care,
should we use some form of nontraditional treatment? She has an identical twin
sister and an older sister who is 20. They are not having any of these issues.
I would like a direction to go in. I am completely overwhelmed.

**Charlotte Herridge** says:

November 30, 2017 at 9:11 am

I'm so relieved that the CDC has finally, after many years, revamped their
website and are offering more accurate information. I have had ME/cfs since
Feb 1984, and few of my family members even believe that I'm sick, and one of
them has called me crazy. Luckily, my immediate family members do understand
my illness and are supportive. In fact, my 2 sons, who are now in their early
40's, remember my recurring bouts of illness that followed the initial viral
illness I had in Feb 1984. This viral illness quickly followed a severe case
of flu, and was unlike any illness I'd previously had. My understanding is
that certain people are predisposed to contracting this "mystery virus". I had
previously had rheumatic fever, Epstein Barre (mononucleosis), cytomomegalo
virus, and an unusually severe case of German measles. My young sons had the
flu at the same time as me, but luckily, they didn't get the viral illness I
did (less than one week after I recovered from the flu). In the beginning, I
would have a relapse every 3 or 4 months, and the intense sickness would only
last a few hours. This apparent relapsing /remitting illness gradually
changed, with the relapses lasting longer, and the times of wellness in
between becoming shorter. I often missed work and was accused of having "that
yuppie flu". Yuppie flu was the name the media gave the debilitating illness
that scores of people like me were suffering from in the mid-80's, implying
that we were just trying to get out of work or were mentally ill. The CDC soon
named the illness chronic fatigue syndrome, which I always felt was
inadequate, as the debilitating fatigue wasn't the worst part of this illness.
Also, I had a medical background, and I knew that the term 'syndrome' implied
that fatigue was only a 'symptom' of the sickness to which I succumbed every 2
months or so that made me feel like I was dying. I would have fevers so high
that I would have delusions. I wanted real answers, or at least a more
descriptive name for the illness, and I have done much research. Now 34 years
later, I am virtually bedridden, and I miss out on so many family occasions.
I'm now 68 years old, and it saddens me to think that I may spend the rest of
my life sick.

**susan boehlje** says:

December 21, 2017 at 8:11 pm

Thanks for the opportunity to comment. My frustration is that I cannot get the
slightest acknowledgement that ME/CFS even exists from my primary care
providers (a #13 rated campus hospital). When I mention it in clinical visits,
Dr turns heads away and subject is changed.

My condition is -- pardon the expression -- metastizing. It has turned into a
number of serious problems inc severe diabetes 2. I've never had diabetes in
my life.

Please, I want to be healthy. I no longer believe that my health care system
has the same goal. REFORM IS LONG OVERDUE!

**Sabrina Willett** says:

April 20, 2018 at 1:54 pm

I developed a severe case of bronchitis in Nov of 2002 that lasted almost 3
months. After that I never could get enough rest, was constantly tired, kept a
sore throat, had muscle pain in my extremities and had difficulty
concentrating. It was all I could do to get myself out of bed. I had a full
time job and 2 kids to take care of. In May of 2003 I was finally diagnosed
with CFS and was told there is no cure. I was also told that this may be the
only "flare" I would have or I may have them the rest of my life. Treatment
would be symptomatic. Over the years I have had several "flares", I'm actually
in a flare now. The most difficult part of this "silent disease" is that my
family and friends think it's a mind over matter issue. I can't tell you how
many times I get the response "I'm tired all the time too! May I have CFS." or
"Just pull your self out of it." Lord I wish I could is my response. I'm
afraid of the disease eventually getting worse to where I can't function. All
my prayers go out to anyone with a "silent illness" and there care givers!

**Katharine Keeling Spann** says:

May 27, 2018 at 7:38 pm

Iâve been sick with ME/CFS for 22 years and bedridden for 9 years. Yet I had
an appointment with the new Chief of Rheumatology at the University of
Mississippi Medical 2 years ago. She informed me that NO Medical Association,
CDC, Dept of Health, etc recognized any such illness. She was young-in her
early 40âs~yet said that to this day it is not mentioned in the medical
textbooks at the University Medical School! There is no need for me to
continue to waste my valuable energy chasing doctors who know NOTHING about
ME/CFS. You MUST begin here. Please give us hope!

**Cynthia Bernfield** says:

July 14, 2018 at 4:27 pm

THANK YOU!

**Jay Hines** says:

December 19, 2018 at 10:30 am

My wife and I were Golden children at the top of our body building game when
this hideous disease cut us down. It reduced our lives to just north of
nothing.

I was 33 yrs old living in northern California in 1993. I was serving my
country in the United States Navy. The events that lead to infection were
identifiable. There was a definite viral etiology. Onset was acute and
devastating. I watched our beautiful bodies get disassembled piece by piece. I
watched our faces go from bright and full to gaunt and drawn up like the old.
The photos are shocking.

Now, 25 yrs later I look back on the war we fought and are fighting with this
disease with utter disgust. Our lives were taken from us though we did not
die. What we are is high functioning sick people at this time. We are at best
50 % of who we were.

**Janet Morris** says:

April 28, 2019 at 9:35 am

April 1990 was the exact time my life became unlivable. I came down with a
very extreme flu-type illness from which I never recovered. After being
drugged to death, and thrown out! of numerous doctors' offices and clinics,
diagnosed as depressed or delusional, I proceeded to get fleeced from
"specialists" who claimed to have the cure for what I knew was "Yuppie Flu".
In my previous life, I was a long-distance runner, a weight lifter, working
more than full time, and rehabbing my Victorian country home. After nearly 30
years of a life half lived, I got cancer and the standard treatments, needless
to say, wiped out every baby step I had ever made towards even the semblance
of functioning. Cancer was such a different experience. This is what you have,
this is what we'll do.. and HERE are your support systems. Almost a relief.

### Post a Comment

###  Cancel Reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment

All comments posted become a part of the public domain, and users are
responsible for their comments. This is a moderated site and your comments
will be reviewed before they are posted. Read more about our comment policy »

Name *

Email *

#### Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Enter Email Address What's this?Submit What's this? Submit Button

### Search This Blog

Search for:

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ePub file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RIS file

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Page last reviewed:May 28, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Page last updated:May 28, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Content source: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * YouTube

![Department of Health and Human
Services](/TemplatePackage/3.0/images/hhs.png)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ###### About CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Employment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Newsroom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Training/Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC's Organization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mission and Vision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Using this Site
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ###### Legal

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Link to Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No FEAR Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Inspector General
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * USA.gov
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * ###### Contact CDC

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

1600 Clifton Road Atlanta, GA 30329-4027 USA

800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636)

Contact CDC-INFO

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

