http://www.cdc.gov/ncezid/dhcpp/index.htmlLink: http://www.cdc.gov/ncezid/dhcpp/index.html    
                Description: Division of High-Consequence Pathogens and Pathology home page    
                Keywords: division of high-consequence pathogens and pathology,  dhcpp,  ncezid,  idpb,  prb,  cvdb,  one health office,  pho,  bspb,  vspb,  viral special pathogens branch,  bacterial special pathogens branch,  prions,  prion and public health office,  infectious disease pathology branch,  poxvirus and rabies branch,  chronic viral diseases branch, CDC Organization    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Division of High-Consequence Pathogens and Pathology

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# Division of High-Consequence Pathogens and Pathology (DHCPP)

Minus

Related Pages

The Division of High Consequence Pathogens and Pathology (DHCPP) improves
public health and safety nationally and globally through investigating,
monitoring, and controlling sickness, disability, and death caused by highly
lethal viral, bacterial, prion, and related infections and diseases of unknown
origin. Learn more.

Prion and Public Health Office

Bacterial Special Pathogens Branch

Chronic Viral Diseases Branch

Infectious Diseases Pathology Branch

Poxvirus and Rabies Branch

Viral Special Pathogens Branch

![Ebola disease](/ncezid/dhcpp/images/flexslider/ebola-medium.jpg)

### Ebola Outbreak

Democratic Republic of Congo, 2018

![Silhouette of people holding and lifting
hands](/ncezid/dhcpp/images/flexslider/world-leprosy-day.jpg)

### World Leprosy Day

Bust the Myths, Learn the Facts

Office of the Director

Provides leadership and management for the programs and activities in DHCPP.

DHCPP's Diseases and Specialty Areas

![This figure is a box diagram depicting the Division of High-Consequence
Pathogens and Pathology's various branches and offices, such as: One Health
Office, Prions and Public Health Office, Bacterial Special Pathogens Branch,
Chronic Viral Disease Branch, Infectious Disease Pathology Branch, Poxvirus
and Rabies Branch, and Viral Special Pathogens
Branch.](/ncezid/dhcpp/images/dhcpp-placemat-350px.jpg)

Learn more about DHCPP's Diseases and Specialty Areas

Related CDC Links

National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases

High Containment Laboratories at CDC - Fifty Years of Excellence

![Dr. Russell Regnery manipulates a microscope through airtight glove portals
while seated at a Class III cabinet in Building 9 in
1978.](/ncezid/dhcpp/images/1978-russell-regnery-small.gif)

This year marks the 50th anniversary of CDC's rich history of laboratory work
investigating the world's deadliest pathogens.

ABOUT MICROBENET

![Microbenet logo](/ncezid/dhcpp/images/microbenetnewlogo.jpg)

A web-based tool for identification of pathogens

Video: Uganda Python Cave

![Uganda Python Cave video](/vhf/marburg/videos/UgandaPythonCave-small.jpg)

**Uganda: The Hunt for Marburg Virus**  
CDC scientists have spearheaded a small pilot project deep inside the forests
of Uganda to track the movement of bats that carry the deadly Marburg virus, a
close cousin to Ebola. Scientists collect bats in Python Cave and attach GPS
units on the backs of these bats to capture their movements to better
understand how the Marburg virus is spread to people.

Related Resource: Washington Post Story: On a Bat's Wing and a Prayerexternal
icon

Page last reviewed: December 13, 2018

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of High-
Consequence Pathogens and Pathology (DHCPP)

home DHCPP

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About DHCPP expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diseases and Specialty Areas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * High Containment Laboratories at CDC â Fifty Years of Excellence
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Office of the Director
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Prion and Public Health Office
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Bacterial Special Pathogens Branch expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory Submissions expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Special Bacteriology Reference Laboratory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Zoonoses and Select Agent Laboratory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Chronic Viral Diseases Branch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Infectious Diseases Pathology Branch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Poxvirus and Rabies Branch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Viral Special Pathogens Branch expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ebola Outbreak, Democratic Republic of Congo, 2018

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

