https://www.cdc.gov/me-cfs/treatment/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/me-cfs/treatment/index.html    
                Description: There is no cure or approved treatment for myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS). However, some symptoms can be treated or managed.     
                Keywords: chronic fatigue syndrome myalgic encephalomyelitis fatigue post-exertional malaise orthostatic intolerance dizziness lightheadedness sleep problems pain memory problems concentration problems activity management, Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# Treatment of ME/CFS

en EspaÃ±ol

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Post-exertional Malaise (PEM)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Sleep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Depression, Stress, and Anxiety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Dizziness and Lightheadedness (Orthostatic Intolerance)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Memory and Concentration Problems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Living with ME/CFS

There is no cure or approved treatment for myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic
fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS). However, some symptoms can be treated or managed.
Treating these symptoms might provide relief for some patients with ME/CFS but
not others. Other strategies, like learning new ways to manage activity, can
also be helpful.

Patients, their families, and healthcare providers need to work together to
decide which symptom causes the most problems. This should be treated first.
Patients, families, and healthcare providers should discuss the possible
benefits and harms of any treatment plans, including medicines and other
therapies.

Healthcare providers need to support their patients' families as they come to
understand how to live with this illness. Providers and families should
remember that this process might be hard on people with ME/CFS.

## Symptoms that healthcare providers might try to address are:

### Post-exertional Malaise (PEM)

Post-exertional malaise (PEM) is the worsening of symptoms after even minor
physical, mental or emotional exertion. For some patients, sensory overload
(light and sound) can induce PEM. The symptoms typically get worse 12 to 48
hours after the activity or exposure and can last for days or even weeks.

PEM can be addressed by  **activity management,  **also called  **pacing**.
The goal of pacing is to learn to balance rest and activity to avoid PEM
flare-ups, which can be caused by exertion that patients with ME/CFS cannot
tolerate. To do this, patients need to  **find their individual limits for
mental and physical activity.  **Then they need to plan activity and rest to
stay within these limits. Some patients and doctors refer to staying within
these limits as staying within the " **energy envelope. "** The limits may be
different for each patient. Keeping activity and symptom diaries may help
patients find their personal limits, especially early on in the illness.

Being mindful of personal limits could prove to be a helpful coping skill for
people living with ME/CFS.  This enables them the ability to find balance
between activities and rest, giving them a sense of managing the illness
rather than the illness controlling them. People living with ME/CFS may find
that everyday activities such as buying groceries, brushing their teeth, or
interacting with others may be enough to cause a relapse or "crash". It may
not be possible to entirely avoid these situations, but people living with
ME/CFS need to be aware of monitoring their own activity limits. When having a
good day, it is tempting to try and "push" (increasing activity beyond what
would normally attempt) to make up for lost time. However, this can then lead
to a "crash" (worsening of ME/CFS symptoms); the cycle can then repeat itself
after people start recovering from the crash.

Rehabilitation specialists or exercise physiologists who understand ME/CFS may
help patients with adjusting to life with ME/CFS. Finding ways to make
activities easier may be helpful, like sitting while doing the laundry or
showering, taking frequent breaks, and dividing large tasks into smaller
steps. Some patients find heart rate monitors useful in keeping track of how
hard their body is working, as a way to prevent PEM. Patients who have learned
to listen to their bodies might be able to increase their activity level.
However, ME/CFS is unpredictable. PEM symptoms may not start right after
exercise, making it important for each treatment plan to be tailored for each
case. Exercise is not a cure for ME/CFS.

Any activity or exercise plan for people with ME/CFS needs to be carefully
designed with input from each patient. While vigorous aerobic exercise can be
beneficial for many chronic illnesses,  **patients with ME/CFS do not tolerate
such exercise routines**. Standard exercise recommendations for healthy people
can be harmful for patients with ME/CFS. However, it is important that
patients with ME/CFS undertake activities that they can tolerate, as described
above.

Top of Page

### Sleep

Patients with ME/CFS often feel less refreshed and restored after sleep than
they did before they became ill. Common sleep complaints include difficulty
falling or staying asleep, extreme sleepiness, intense and vivid dreaming,
restless legs, and nighttime muscle spasms.  
Good sleep habits are important for all people, including those with ME/CFS.
**When people try these tips but are still unable to sleep, their doctor might
recommend taking medicine to help with sleep.**  First, people should try
over-the-counter sleep products. If this does not help, doctors can offer a
prescription sleep medicine, starting at the smallest dose and using for the
shortest possible time.

**People might continue to feel unrefreshed even after the medications help
them to get a full night of sleep.** If so, they should consider seeing a
sleep specialist. Most people with sleep disorders, like sleep apnea (symptoms
include brief pausing in breathing during sleep) and narcolepsy (symptoms
include excessive daytime sleepiness), respond to therapy. However, for people
with ME/CFS, not all symptoms may go away.

Top of Page

### Pain

People with ME/CFS often have deep pain in their muscles and joints. They
might also have headaches (typically pressure-like) and soreness of their skin
when touched.

Patients should always talk to their healthcare provider before trying any
medication. Doctors may first recommend trying over-the-counter pain-
relievers, like acetaminophen, aspirin, or ibuprofen. If these do not provide
enough pain relief, patients may need to see a pain specialist. People with
chronic pain, including those with ME/CFS, can benefit from counseling to
learn new ways to deal with pain.

Other pain management methods include stretching and movement therapies,
gentle massage, heat, toning exercises, and water therapy for healing.
Acupuncture, when done by a licensed practitioner, might help with pain for
some patients.

Top of Page

### Depression, Stress, and Anxiety

Adjusting to a chronic, debilitating illness sometimes leads to other
problems, including depression, stress, and anxiety. Many patients with ME/CFS
develop depression during their illness. When present, depression or anxiety
should be treated. Although treating depression or anxiety can be helpful, it
is not a cure for ME/CFS.

Some people with ME/CFS might benefit from antidepressants and anti-anxiety
medications. However, doctors should use caution in prescribing these
medications. Some drugs used to treat depression have other effects that might
worsen other ME/CFS symptoms and cause side effects. When healthcare providers
are concerned about patient's psychological condition, they may recommend
seeing a mental health professional.

Some people with ME/CFS might benefit from trying techniques like deep
breathing and muscle relaxation, massage, and movement therapies (such as
stretching, yoga, and tai chi). These can reduce stress and anxiety, and
promote a sense of well-being.

Top of Page

### Dizziness and Lightheadedness (Orthostatic Intolerance)

Some people with ME/CFS might also have symptoms of orthostatic intolerance
that are triggered when-or made worse by-standing or sitting upright. These
symptoms can include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequent dizziness and lightheadedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Changes in vision (blurred vision, seeing white or black spots)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Weakness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Feeling like your heart is beating too fast or too hard, fluttering, or skipping a beat

For patients with these symptoms, their doctor will check their heart rate and
blood pressure, and may recommend they see a specialist, like a cardiologist
or neurologist.

For people with ME/CFS who do not have heart or blood vessel disease, doctor
might suggest patients increase daily fluid and salt intake and use support
stockings. If symptoms do not improve, prescription medication can be
considered.

Top of Page

### Memory and Concentration Problems

Memory aids, like organizers and calendars, can help with memory problems. For
people with ME/CFS who have concentration problems, some doctors have
prescribed stimulant medications, like those typically used to treat
Attention-Deficit / Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). While stimulants might help
improve concentration for some patients with ME/CFS, they might lead to the
'push-and-crash' cycle and worsen symptoms. "Push-and-crash" cycles are when
someone with ME/CFS is having a good day and tries to push to do more than
they would normally attempt (do too much, crash, rest, start to feel a little
better, do too much once again).

Top of Page

### Living with ME/CFS

Strategies that do not involve use of medications and might be helpful to some
patients are:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Professional counseling: Talking with a therapist to help find strategies to cope with the illness and its impact on daily life and relationships.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Balanced diet. A balanced diet is important for everyone's good health and would benefit a person with or without any chronic illness.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nutritional supplements. Doctors might run tests to see if patients lack any important nutrients and might suggest supplements to try. Doctors and patients should talk about any risks and benefits of supplements, and consider any possible interactions that may occur with prescription medications. Follow-up tests to see if nutrient levels improve can help with treatment planning.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Complementary therapies. Therapies, like meditation, gentle massage, deep breathing, or relaxation therapy, might be helpful.

Important note: Patients should talk with their doctors about all potential
therapies because many treatments that are promoted as cures for ME/CFS are
unproven, often costly, and could be dangerous.

Disclaimer: This website is for informational purposes only. The information
provided on this website is not intended to be a substitute for professional
medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment.

Page last reviewed: November 19, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of High-
Consequence Pathogens and Pathology (DHCPP)

home ME/CFS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What is ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Possible Causes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Symptoms and Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ME/CFS in Childrenplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms and Diagnosis of ME/CFS in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment of ME/CFS in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ME/CFS in Children Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Healthcare Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Parents/Guardians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Education Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDCâs ME/CFS Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosis and Treatment of ME/CFS Syndrome: A Systematic Review of the Evidence
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Meetings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Multi-site Clinical Assessment of CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Wichita Clinical Study Data Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Living with ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Andrewâs Story 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Annâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lizâs Story 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Marleneâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Information for Healthcare Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Presentation and Clinical Course of ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prognosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Etiology and Pathophysiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * IOM 2015 Diagnostic Criteria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Proposed Approach to ME/CFS Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other Conditions for Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Comorbid Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Factors Complicating the Diagnosis of ME/CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinical Care of Patients with ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treating the Most Disruptive Symptoms First and Preventing Worsening of Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Additional Strategies for Living with ME/CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Monitoring the Use of All Medicines and Supplements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Severely Affected Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Understanding History of Case Definitions and Criteria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Disability and ME-CFS

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

