https://www.cdc.gov/me-cfs/about/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/me-cfs/about/index.html    
                Description: Myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS) is a disabling and complex illness.    
                Keywords: chronic fatigue syndrome myalgic encephalomyelitis fatigue post-exertional malaise orthostatic intolerance dizziness lightheadedness sleep problems pain memory problems concentration problems activity management, Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# What is ME/CFS?

en EspaÃ±ol

Minus

Related Pages

Myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS) is a disabling and
complex illness.

People with ME/CFS are often not able to do their usual activities. At times,
ME/CFS may confine them to bed. People with ME/CFS have overwhelming fatigue
that is not improved by rest. ME/CFS may get worse after any activity, whether
it's physical or mental. This symptom is known as post-exertional malaise
(PEM). Other symptoms can include problems with sleep, thinking and
concentrating, pain, and dizziness. People with ME/CFS may not look ill.
However,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * People with ME/CFS are not able to function the same way they did before they became ill.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ME/CFS changes people's ability to do daily tasks, like taking a shower or preparing a meal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ME/CFS often makes it hard to keep a job, go to school, and take part in family and social life.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ME/CFS can last for years and sometimes leads to serious disability.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * At least one in four ME/CFS patients is bed- or house-bound for long periods during their illness.

Anyone can get ME/CFS. While most common in people between 40 and 60 years
old, the illness affects children, adolescents, and adults of all ages. Among
adults, women are affected more often than men. Whites are diagnosed more than
other races and ethnicities. But many people with ME/CFS have not been
diagnosed, especially among minorities.

As noted in the IOM report:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * An estimated 836,000 to 2.5 million Americans suffer from ME/CFS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About 90 percent of people with ME/CFS have not been diagnosed.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ME/CFS costs the U.S. economy about $17 to $24 billion annually in medical bills and lost incomes.

Some of the reasons that people with ME/CFS have not been diagnosed include
limited access to healthcare and a lack of education about ME/CFS among
healthcare providers.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Most medical schools in the United States do not have ME/CFS as part of their physician training.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The illness is often misunderstood and might not be taken seriously by some healthcare providers.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * More education for doctors and nurses is urgently needed so they are prepared to provide timely diagnosis and appropriate care for patients.

Researchers have not yet found what causes ME/CFS, and there are no specific
laboratory tests to diagnose ME/CFS directly. Therefore, doctors need to
consider the diagnosis of ME/CFS based on in-depth evaluation of a person's
symptoms and medical history. It is also important that doctors diagnose and
treat any other conditions that can cause similar symptoms. Even though there
is no cure for ME/CFS, some symptoms can be treated or managed.

Page last reviewed: July 12, 2018

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of High-
Consequence Pathogens and Pathology (DHCPP)

home ME/CFS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What is ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Possible Causes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Symptoms and Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ME/CFS in Childrenplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms and Diagnosis of ME/CFS in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment of ME/CFS in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ME/CFS in Children Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Healthcare Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Parents/Guardians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Education Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDCâs ME/CFS Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosis and Treatment of ME/CFS Syndrome: A Systematic Review of the Evidence
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Meetings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Multi-site Clinical Assessment of CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Wichita Clinical Study Data Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Living with ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Andrewâs Story 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Annâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lizâs Story 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Marleneâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Information for Healthcare Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Presentation and Clinical Course of ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prognosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Etiology and Pathophysiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * IOM 2015 Diagnostic Criteria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Proposed Approach to ME/CFS Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other Conditions for Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Comorbid Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Factors Complicating the Diagnosis of ME/CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinical Care of Patients with ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treating the Most Disruptive Symptoms First and Preventing Worsening of Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Additional Strategies for Living with ME/CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Monitoring the Use of All Medicines and Supplements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Severely Affected Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Understanding History of Case Definitions and Criteria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Disability and ME-CFS

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

