https://www.cdc.gov/socialmedia/tools/InfoGraphics.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/socialmedia/tools/InfoGraphics.html    
                Description: Infographics    
                Keywords: social media,  Tools,  Infographics, Social Media Tools, Health Communication    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Social Media at CDC

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# Infographics

Minus

Related Pages

### Overview

Infographics (Information Graphics) are visual representations of data,
information or knowledge that tell a story through visual communication. We
have developed a new gallery for our current and upcoming Infographics created
for CDC events and campaigns, as well as national public health activities.
You can copy and paste the code to embed the Infographics in your Web sites,
social network profiles, and blogs.

### Infographics at CDC

CDC encourages the strategic use of infographics when the message is more
visual in nature and requires more than data or charts to communicate
successfully to the target audience.

Invest in Your Community

![Invest in Your
Community](http://www.cdc.gov/socialmedia/tools/infographic/invest-in-your-
community_970px.jpg)

Copy the code below for the **" Invest in Your Community--4 Considerations to
Improve Health and Well-Being for All"** Infographic (970px × 750px).​

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/CHInav" title="Invest in Your Community--4
Considerations to Improve Health and Well-Being for All" target="_blank"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/socialmedia/tools/infographic/invest-in-your-
community_970px.jpg" alt="Invest in Your Community--4 Considerations to
Improve Health and Well-Being for All" border="0″ /></a>

Tracking down the salt in food with Professor Saul T

![Tracking down the salt in food with Professor Saul
T.](http://www.cdc.gov/salt/images/info_salt_01.jpg)external icon

Copy the code below for the **" Tracking down the salt in food with Professor
Saul T"** Infographic (1543×1324).​

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/salt/infographic.htm?s_cid=info-
salt-01&utm_campaign=Sodium
Infographic&utm_medium=infographic&utm_source=external&utm_content=info-
salt-01″ title="Tracking down the salt in food with Professor Saul T. Too much
sodium increases your risk for high blood pressure, and high blood pressure is
the leading cause of heart attack and stroke. By taking the right steps to
reduce your sodium intake, your blood pressure can begin decreasing within
weeks. About 90% of Americans eat more sodium than is recommended for a
healthy diet. Six in 10 adults should aim for 1,500 milligrams a day; others
for 2,300 milligrams. Sodium adds up, and sodium levels in the same food can
vary widely. Fat free chips can have 180 milligrams per ounce; white bread, up
to 230 milligrams per slice; ready-to-eat cereal, 250 milligrams per cup;
chicken breast with added solution, up to 330 milligrams per 4 ounces. Foods
that you eat several times a day can add up to a lot of sodium, even if each
serving is not high in sodium. Read Nutrition labels to find the lowest sodium
options. A bowl of regular chicken noodle soup can have 840 milligrams of
sodium, but lower sodium chicken noodle soup can have 360 milligrams of
sodium. Most of the sodium we eat comes from foods prepared in restaurants and
processed foods (not from the salt shaker). Tips you can use to reduce sodium:
Choose fresh, frozen (no sauce), or no salt added canned vegetables; Know
terms that commonly indicate higher sodium content, like pickled, cured,
brined, and broth; Follow the Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH)
eating plan at http://go.usa.gov/p3C. For more tips on reducing sodium in your
diet, visit http://go.usa.gov/YJxF. This infographic is brought to you by
Million Hearts. millionhearts.hhs.gov"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/salt/images/info_salt_01.jpg" style="width:1543px;
height:1324px; border:0px;" alt="Tracking down the salt in food with Professor
Saul T. Too much sodium increases your risk for high blood pressure, and high
blood pressure is the leading cause of heart attack and stroke. By taking the
right steps to reduce your sodium intake, your blood pressure can begin
decreasing within weeks. About 90% of Americans eat more sodium than is
recommended for a healthy diet. Six in 10 adults should aim for 1,500
milligrams a day; others for 2,300 milligrams. Sodium adds up, and sodium
levels in the same food can vary widely. Fat free chips can have 180
milligrams per ounce; white bread, up to 230 milligrams per slice; ready-to-
eat cereal, 250 milligrams per cup; chicken breast with added solution, up to
330 milligrams per 4 ounces. Foods that you eat several times a day can add up
to a lot of sodium, even if each serving is not high in sodium. Read Nutrition
labels to find the lowest sodium options. A bowl of regular chicken noodle
soup can have 840 milligrams of sodium, but lower sodium chicken noodle soup
can have 360 milligrams of sodium. Most of the sodium we eat comes from foods
prepared in restaurants and processed foods (not from the salt shaker). Tips
you can use to reduce sodium: Choose fresh, frozen (no sauce), or no salt
added canned vegetables; Know terms that commonly indicate higher sodium
content, like pickled, cured, brined, and broth; Follow the Dietary Approaches
to Stop Hypertension (DASH) eating plan at http://go.usa.gov/p3C. For more
tips on reducing sodium in your diet, visit http://go.usa.gov/YJxF. This
infographic is brought to you by Million Hearts. millionhearts.hhs.gov"
/></a><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br
/><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br />

A Snapshot: Blood Pressure in the U.S.

![CDC Burn to
Learn](http://www.cdc.gov/bloodpressure/images/MH_BP_Infographic.jpg)

Copy the code below for the **" A Snapshot: Blood Pressure in the U.S. "**
Infographic (970×1984).

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/bloodpressure/infographic.htm?s_cid=bb-bpmonth-03″
title="A Snapshot: Blood Pressure in the U.S. Make Control Your Goal. High
blood pressure is a major risk factor for heart disease and stroke, the first
and fourth leading causes of death for all Americans. High Blood Pressure
Basics. 67 million American adults--1 in 3--have high blood pressure. High
blood pressure contributes to ~1,000 deaths/day. When your blood pressure is
high, you are 4 times more likely to die from a stroke, and you are 3 times
more likely to die from heart disease. 69% of people who have a first heart
attack, 77% of people who have a first stroke, and 74% of people with chronic
heart failure have high blood pressure. Annual estimated costs associated with
high blood pressure: $51 billion, including $47.5 billion in direct medical
expenses. Blood Pressure Control. Only about half of people with high blood
pressure have their condition under control. Reducing average population
systolic blood pressure by only 12-13 mmHg could reduce stroke by 37%,
coronary heart disease by 21%, deaths from cardiovascular disease by 25%, and
deaths from all causes by 13%. Make Control Your Goal, Every Day. Check your
blood pressure regularly--at home, at a doctor's office, or at a pharmacy. Eat
a healthy diet with more fruits, vegetables, potassium, and whole grains and
less sodium, saturated fat, trans fat, and cholesterol . Read nutrition labels
and lower your sodium intake. Most of the sodium we eat comes from processed
and restaurant foods. About 90% of Americans eat too much sodium. Quit smoking
--or don't start. 1-800-QUIT-NOW or Smokefree.gov. Adults should limit alcohol
to no more than 1 drink per day for women and 2 drinks per day for men. Get
active and maintain a healthy weight. Aim for 2 hours and 30 minutes of
moderate physical activity every week. This infographic was developed by the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's Division for Heart Disease and
Stroke Prevention in support of achieving the Million Hearts® initiative goal
to prevent 1 million heart attacks and strokes by 2017."><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/bloodpressure/images/MH_BP_Infographic.jpg"
style="width:970px; height:1984px; border:0px;" alt="A Snapshot: Blood
Pressure in the U.S. Make Control Your Goal. High blood pressure is a major
risk factor for heart disease and stroke, the first and fourth leading causes
of death for all Americans. High Blood Pressure Basics. 67 million American
adults--1 in 3--have high blood pressure. High blood pressure contributes to
~1,000 deaths/day. When your blood pressure is high, you are 4 times more
likely to die from a stroke, and you are 3 times more likely to die from heart
disease. 69% of people who have a first heart attack, 77% of people who have a
first stroke, and 74% of people with chronic heart failure have high blood
pressure. Annual estimated costs associated with high blood pressure: $51
billion, including $47.5 billion in direct medical expenses. Blood Pressure
Control. Only about half of people with high blood pressure have their
condition under control. Reducing average population systolic blood pressure
by only 12-13 mmHg could reduce stroke by 37%, coronary heart disease by 21%,
deaths from cardiovascular disease by 25%, and deaths from all causes by 13%.
Make Control Your Goal, Every Day. Check your blood pressure regularly--at
home, at a doctor's office, or at a pharmacy. Eat a healthy diet with more
fruits, vegetables, potassium, and whole grains and less sodium, saturated
fat, trans fat, and cholesterol . Read nutrition labels and lower your sodium
intake. Most of the sodium we eat comes from processed and restaurant foods.
About 90% of Americans eat too much sodium. Quit smoking--or don't start.
1-800-QUIT-NOW or Smokefree.gov. Adults should limit alcohol to no more than 1
drink per day for women and 2 drinks per day for men. Get active and maintain
a healthy weight. Aim for 2 hours and 30 minutes of moderate physical activity
every week. This infographic was developed by the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention's Division for Heart Disease and Stroke Prevention in support
of achieving the Million Hearts® initiative goal to prevent 1 million heart
attacks and strokes by 2017." /></a>

Burn to Learn

![CDC Burn to
Learn](http://www.cdc.gov//healthyschools/images/Burn2LearnInfographic.png)

Copy the code below for the **" Burn to Learn"** Infographic (1289×1477).

<a href="https://www.cdc.gov/healthyschools/multimedia/infographics.htm<span
data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow:
hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start"></span>" title="Burn to
Learn" target="_blank"><img
src="https://www.cdc.gov/healthyschools/images/Burn2LearnInfographic.png"
alt="CDC Burn to Learn" width="641″ height="544″ border="0″ /><

Go Light

![CDC Go
Light](https://www.cdc.gov/nccdphp/dnpao/multimedia/infographics/images/GoLightWhenYouGrabABite_720x878.PNG)

Copy the code below for the **" Go Light"** Infographic (720×878).

<a
href="https://www.cdc.gov/nccdphp/dnpao/multimedia/infographics/golight.html<span
data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow:
hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start"></span>" title="Go Light"
target="_blank"><img
src="https://www.cdc.gov/nccdphp/dnpao/multimedia/infographics/images/GoLightWhenYouGrabABite_720x878.PNG"
alt="CDC Go Light" border="0″ />

The New (Ab)normal

![CDC The New
\(Ab\)normal](https://www.cdc.gov/nccdphp/dnpao/multimedia/infographics/images/newabnormal_infographic.png)

  
Copy the code below for this **" The New (Ab)normal"** Infographic
(1644×2150).

<a
href="https://www.cdc.gov/nccdphp/dnpao/multimedia/infographics/newabnormal.html"
title="The New (Ab)normal" target="_blank"><img
src="https://www.cdc.gov/nccdphp/dnpao/multimedia/infographics/images/newabnormal_infographic.png"
alt="CDC The New (Ab)normal" width="643″ height="841″ border="0″ />

</

Protect Your Baby from Whooping Cough

![Protect Babies from Whooping Cough
Infographic](https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/parents/infographics/images/protect-
babies-from-whooping-cough.jpg)

  
Copy the code below for the **" Protect Your Baby from Whooping Cough"**
Infographic (612×2376).

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/parents/infographics/protect-babies-from-
whooping-cough.html?s_cid=bb-pertussis-moms-001″ title="Protect Your Baby from
Whooping Cough."><img
src="https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/parents/infographics/images/protect-babies-
from-whooping-cough.jpg" style="width:612px; height:2376px; border:0px;"
alt="Protect Your Baby from Whooping Cough." /></a> textarea></p>

A global view of child injury

![A global view of child
injury](http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/ChildInjury_300px.png)

  
Copy the code below for the **" A global view of child injury"** Infographic
(299×750).

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/vitalsigns/childinjury/infographic.html?s_cid=bb-
vitalsigns-125″ title="Infographic…A global view of child injury"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/ChildInjury_300px.png"
style="width:299px; height:750px; border:0px;" alt="Infographic…A global view
of child injury" /> br />

Time to Scale back

![Time to Scale
Back](https://www.cdc.gov/nccdphp/dnpao/multimedia/infographics/images/CDCTimetoScaleBackInfographic.png)

Copy the code below for the **" Time to Scale Back"** Infographic (641×544).

<a
href="https://www.cdc.gov/nccdphp/dnpao/multimedia/infographics/timetoscaleback.html"
title="Time to Scale Back" target="_blank"><img
src="https://www.cdc.gov/nccdphp/dnpao/multimedia/infographics/images/CDCTimetoScaleBackInfographic.png"
alt="CDC Time to Scale Back" width="641″ height="544″ border="0″ />

Page last reviewed: December 27, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Social Media at CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidelines & Best Practicesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Writing for Social Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Buttons and Badges plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Health IQ_ Smartphone App
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Million Hearts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Solve The Outbreak 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vital Signsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diseases & Conditions 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emergency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Environmental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthy Living
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Injury, Violence & Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Training & Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Workplace Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Image Sharingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Online Video

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Content Syndication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mobile / Tablet Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Widgets

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:10 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:13 AM

