https://www.cdc.gov/socialmedia/tools/buttons/environmental/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/socialmedia/tools/buttons/environmental/index.html    
                Description: Basic information from CDC about breast cancer.    
                Keywords: social media,  Tools,  Buttons and Badges Gallery, Health Communication    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Social Media at CDC

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# Environmental Health

Minus

Related Pages

### Enviromental Buttons

Asthma

![One in 14 Americans has
Asthma](http://www.cdc.gov/asthma/images/PeopleHaveAsthma.jpg)

Copy the code below for this **" One in 14 Americans has Asthma"** button (150
x 200):

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/asthma/?s_cid=asthma-002-bb" title="One in 14
Americans has Asthma"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/asthma/images/PeopleHaveAsthma.jpg" alt="One in 14
Americans has Asthma" width="150″ height="200″ style="width:150px;
height:200px; border:0px;" /></a>

Carbon Monoxide Poisoning Can Be Stopped

![Carbon Monoxide Poisoning Can Be
Stopped](http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/co/carbon-monoxide-poisoning.jpg)

Copy the code below for this **" Carbon Monoxide Poisoning Can Be Stopped"**
button (200 x 250):

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/co/?s_cid=carbon-monoxide-001-bb" title="Carbon
Monoxide Poisoning Can Be Stopped"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/co/carbon-monoxide-poisoning.jpg"
style="width:200px; height:250px; border:0px;" alt="Carbon Monoxide Poisoning
Can Be Stopped" /></a>

e-Learning Module on Environmental Assessment of Foodborne Illness Outbreaks

![e-Learning Module on Environmental Assessment of Foodborne Illness
Outbreaks](http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/ehs/ehs0214-foodborneillness-180x170.gif)

Copy the code below for this **" e-Learning Module on Environmental Assessment
of Foodborne Illness Outbreaks " ** button (180 x 170):

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/nceh/ehs/eLearn/EA_FIO/index.htm"
title="Environmental Assessment of Foodborne Illness Outbreaks"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/ehs/ehs0214-foodborneillness-180×170.gif"
style="width:180px; height:170px; border:0px;" alt="Environmental Assessment
of Foodborne Illness Outbreaks" /></a>

Healthy Community Design

![The way we design and build our communities can affect our
health.](http://www.cdc.gov/healthyplaces/infographics/300_CommunityDesign.jpg)

Copy the code below to embed the "The way we design and build our communities
can affect our health." button (299 x 224)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/healthyplaces/?s_cid=bb-EEHS-healthyplaces-001″
title="The way we design and build our communities can affect our
health."><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/healthyplaces/infographics/300_CommunityDesign.jpg"
style="width:299px; height:224px; border:0px;" alt="The way we design and
build our communities can affect our health." /></a>

![Sidewalks could prevent crashes that involve pedestrians walking along a
road.](http://www.cdc.gov/healthyplaces/infographics/300_Sidewalks.jpg)

Copy the code below to embed the "Sidewalks could prevent crashes that involve
pedestrians walking along a road. " button (400 x 299)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/healthyplaces/?s_cid=bb-EEHS-healthyplaces-002″
title="Sidewalks could prevent crashes that involve pedestrians walking along
a road. "><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/healthyplaces/infographics/300_Sidewalks.jpg"
style="width:400px; height:299px; border:0px;" alt="Sidewalks could prevent
crashes that involve pedestrians walking along a road. " /></a>

![The percentage of kids walking or biking to school has
declined.](http://www.cdc.gov/healthyplaces/infographics/300_Schools.jpg)

Copy the code below to embed the "The percentage of kids walking or biking to
school has declined." button (300 x 223)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/healthyplaces/?s_cid=bb-EEHS-healthyplaces-003″
title="The percentage of kids walking or biking to school has declined. "><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/healthyplaces/infographics/300_Schools.jpg "
style="width:300px; height:223px; border:0px;" alt="The percentage of kids
walking or biking to school has declined. " /></a>

![6 in 10 people do not live within half mile of a
park.](http://www.cdc.gov/healthyplaces/infographics/300_Park.jpg)

Copy the code below to embed the "6 in 10 people do not live within half mile
of a park." button (300 x 224)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/healthyplaces/?s_cid=bb-EEHS-healthyplaces-004″
title="6 in 10 people do not live within half mile of a park."><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/healthyplaces/infographics/300_Park.jpg"
style="width:300px; height:225px; border:0px;" alt="6 in 10 people do not live
within half mile of a park." /></a>

![Where you live can play an important role on your
health.](http://www.cdc.gov/healthyplaces/infographics/300_YourAdress.jpg)

Copy the code below to embed the "Where you live can play an important role on
your health." button (224 x 300)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/healthyplaces/?s_cid=bb-EEHS-healthyplaces-005″
title="Where you live can play an important role on your health."><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/healthyplaces/infographics/300_YourAdress.jpg"
style="width:225px; height:300px; border:0px;" alt="Where you live can play an
important role on your health." /></a>

![Farmer's market access may increase fruit and vegetable
consumption.](http://www.cdc.gov/healthyplaces/infographics/300_FarmersMarket.jpg)

Copy the code below to embed the "Farmer's market access may increase fruit
and vegetable consumption." button (224 x 300)

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/healthyplaces/?s_cid=bb-EEHS-healthyplaces-006″
title="Farmer's market access may increase fruit and vegetable
consumption."><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/healthyplaces/infographics/300_FarmersMarket.jpg"
style="width:225px; height:300px; border:0px;" alt="Farmer's market access may
increase fruit and vegetable consumption." /></a>

Healthy Swimming Pool Chemical Safety

![CDC's Pool Chemical Safety
Page.](http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/ncezid/pool-chem-safety-button.jpg)

Copy the code below for this **" CDC's Pool Chemical Safety"** button (180 x
180):

<a
href="http://www.cdc.gov/healthywater/poolchemicals/index.html?s_cid=ncezid-
dfwed-poolchemsafety-001″ title="CDC's Pool Chemical Safety Page."><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/ncezid/pool-chem-safety-button.jpg"
style="width:180px; height:180px; border:0px;" alt="CDC's Pool Chemical Safety
Page." /></a>

Lead Poisoning Prevention week is October 23-29, 2011.

![Lead Poisoning Prevention week is October 23-29, 2011. Get your home tested.
Get your child tested. Get the
facts.](http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/leadpoisoning/lead-free-
kids2011-200x191.jpg)

Copy the code below for this **"Lead Poisoning Prevention week is October
23-29, 2011."** button (200 x 191):  
<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/nceh/lead/nlppw.htm?s_cid=leadfk-007-bb"
title="Lead Poisoning Prevention week is October 23-29, 2011. Get your home
tested. Get your child tested. Get the facts."><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/leadpoisoning/lead-free-
kids2011-200x191.jpg" style="width:200px; height:191px; border:0px;" alt="Lead
Poisoning Prevention week is October 23-29, 2011. Get your home tested. Get
your child tested. Get the facts." /></a>

National Lead Poisoning Prevention Week

![Prevent Lead Poisoning. Get your home tested. Get your child tested. Get the
facts!](http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/leadpoisoning/leadfreekids_2010_155x155.gif)

Copy the code below for this **" National Lead Poisoning Prevention Week"**
button (155 x 155):

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/nceh/lead/nlppw.htm?s_cid=leadpoisoning_005″
title="Lead Free Kids for a Healthy Future - National Lead Poisoning
Prevention Week: October 24-30, 2010″><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/leadpoisoning/leadfreekids_2010_155x155.gif"
style="width:155px; height:155px; border:0px;" alt="Lead Free Kids for a
Healthy Future - National Lead Poisoning Prevention Week: October 24-30, 2010″
/></a>

![Prevent Lead Poisoning. Get your home tested. Get your child tested. Get the
facts!](http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/leadpoisoning/leadfreekids_nodate_155x240.jpg)

Copy the code below for this **" National Lead Poisoning Prevention Week"**
button (155 x 240):

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/nceh/lead/nlppw.htm?s_cid=leadpoisoning_004″
title="Lead Free Kids for a Healthy Future"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/leadpoisoning/leadfreekids_nodate_155x240.jpg"
style="width:155px; height:240px; border:0px;" alt="Lead Free Kids for a
Healthy Future" /></a>

![Prevent Lead Poisoning. Get your home tested. Get your child tested. Get the
facts!](http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/leadpoisoning/leadfreekids_2010_150x300.jpg)

Copy the code below for this **" National Lead Poisoning Prevention Week"**
button (150 x 300):

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/nceh/lead/nlppw.htm?s_cid=leadpoisoning_006″
title="Lead Free Kids for a Healthy Future - National Lead Poisoning
Prevention Week: October 24-30, 2010″><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/leadpoisoning/leadfreekids_2010_150x300.jpg"
style="width:150px; height:300px; border:0px;" alt="Lead Free Kids for a
Healthy Future - National Lead Poisoning Prevention Week: October 24-30, 2010″
/></a>

Overseas Adoptions and Lead Exposure

![Children recently adopted from overseas may have been exposed to lead. Ask
your doctor for a lead test! Click
here…](http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/leadpoisoning/overseasadoptions_157x152.gif)pdf
icon

Copy the code below for this **" Overseas adoptions and lead exposure PDF"**
button (157 x 152):

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/nceh/lead/tips/adoptionflyer.pdf" title="Children
recently adopted from overseas may have been exposed to lead. Ask your doctor
for a lead test! Click here…"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/leadpoisoning/overseasadoptions_157x152.gif"
style="width:157px; height:152px; border:0px;" alt="Children recently adopted
from overseas may have been exposed to lead. Ask your doctor for a lead test!
Click here…" /></a>

![Children recently adopted from overseas may have been exposed to lead. Ask
your doctor for a lead test! Click
here…](http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/leadpoisoning/overseasadoptions_265x257.gif)pdf
icon

Copy the code below for this **" Overseas adoptions and lead exposure PDF"**
button (265 x 257):

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/nceh/lead/tips/adoptionflyer.pdf" title="Children
recently adopted from overseas may have been exposed to lead. Ask your doctor
for a lead test! Click here…"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/leadpoisoning/overseasadoptions_265x257.gif"
style="width:265px; height:257px; border:0px;" alt="Children recently adopted
from overseas may have been exposed to lead. Ask your doctor for a lead test!
Click here…" /></a>

Prevent Lead Poisoning

![Prevent Lead Poisoning. Get your home tested. Get your child tested. Get the
facts! Click
here…](http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/leadpoisoning/prevent_83x83.jpg)

Copy the code below for this **" Prevent Lead Poisoning"** button (83 x 83):

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/nceh/lead/tips.htm?s_cid=leadpoisoning_001″
title="Prevent Lead Poisoning. Get your home tested. Get your child tested.
Get the facts! Click here…"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/leadpoisoning/prevent_83x83.jpg"
style="width:83px; height:83px; border:0px;" alt="Prevent Lead Poisoning. Get
your home tested. Get your child tested. Get the facts! Click here…" /></a>

![Prevent Lead Poisoning. Get your home tested. Get your child tested. Get the
facts! Click
here…](http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/leadpoisoning/prevent_150x150.jpg)

Copy the code below for this **" Prevent Lead Poisoning"** button (150 x 150):

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/nceh/lead/tips.htm?s_cid=leadpoisoning_002″
title="Prevent Lead Poisoning. Get your home tested. Get your child tested.
Get the facts! Click here…"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/leadpoisoning/prevent_150x150.jpg"
style="width:150px; height:150px; border:0px;" alt="Prevent Lead Poisoning.
Get your home tested. Get your child tested. Get the facts! Click here…"
/></a>

![Prevent Lead Poisoning. Get your home tested. Get your child tested. Get the
facts! Click
here…](http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/leadpoisoning/prevent_250x250.jpg)

Copy the code below for this **" Prevent Lead Poisoning"** button (250 x 250):

<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/nceh/lead/tips.htm?s_cid=leadpoisoning_003″
title="Prevent Lead Poisoning. Get your home tested. Get your child tested.
Get the facts! Click here…"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/leadpoisoning/prevent_250x250.jpg"
style="width:250px; height:250px; border:0px;" alt="Prevent Lead Poisoning.
Get your home tested. Get your child tested. Get the facts! Click here…"
/></a>

Page last reviewed: December 27, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Social Media at CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidelines & Best Practicesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Writing for Social Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Buttons and Badges plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Health IQ_ Smartphone App
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Million Hearts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Solve The Outbreak 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vital Signsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diseases & Conditions 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emergency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Environmental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthy Living
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Injury, Violence & Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Training & Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Workplace Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Image Sharingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Online Video

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Content Syndication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mobile / Tablet Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Widgets

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:10 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:13 AM

