https://www.cdc.gov/mobile/applications/healthiq/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/mobile/applications/healthiq/index.html    
                Description: Download the CDC Health IQ App - A Fun and Educational Health Trivia Game!    
                Keywords: Mobile, CDC Mobile, Mobile Activities, Apps, Texting    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

CDC Mobile & Voice Activities

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# CDCâs Health IQ App

Minus

Related Pages

![health iq
banner](/mobile/applications/healthiq/images/16_265358-A_wolfson_Health_IQ_Marketing_Images_cdc_feature_v2.jpg)

### Challenge your _Health IQ_

CDC's interactive, educational, and fun health trivia application, Health IQ,
is now available in Spanish. As CDC's first bi-lingual mobile application, now
even more users can challenge their Health IQ and learn about health while
having fun!

**Download the CDC** _ **Health IQ**_ **App to Your Smartphone - A Fun and
Educational Health Trivia Game!**

![Download on the App Store](/mobile/images/appstore_100px.jpg) ![Android App
on Google Play](/mobile/images/googleplay_100px.png)

### Test your _Health IQ_

Do you know the minimum SPF needed to protect yourself from the sun's harmful
rays? Or how many seconds you should wash your hands to kill germs? Test your
Health IQ to see how your health skills stack up.

Let our game show scientists lead you through an exciting selection of trivia
questions and word scrambles. Choose from three levels of difficulty, Easy,
Medium, or Hard…or be surprised by selecting a Random mix.

![      What is your Health IQ? Download the new app today and find out! Now
available in Spanish.](/mobile/applications/healthiq/images/health-iq-
purple-350px.jpg)

### Earn IQ Points for Correct Answers

Race against the clock to earn more points or use hints when you are stumped.
Each quiz delivers a mix of 10 questions.

Answer as many of the 10 questions correctly and as quickly as possible with
the hopes of earning bonuses like A+ Student, Public Health Nerd, and Einstein
or score poorly and earn the Hot Mess achievement!

### Play Again and Again!

Play again and again as new questions will be added frequently and try to beat
your highest score!!

Page last reviewed: May 23, 2016

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home CDC Mobile & Voice Activities

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Appsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Consumer/General Publicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Mobile App
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health IQ App
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Health Care Provider/Clinicianplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC DentalCheck
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Contraceptive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Laboratory Response Network Rule-Out and Refer app
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevent Group B Strep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * PTT Advisor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sexually Transmitted Disease Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vaccine Schedules
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Webplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Solve the Outbreak â Web 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Solve the Outbreak â Tablet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Voice

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Related Topics

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC Blogs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC eHealth Metrics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC Streaming Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC-TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Content Syndication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Podcasts at CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Social Media Tools

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:10 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:13 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM

