https://www.cdc.gov/socialmedia/tools/ImageSharing.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/socialmedia/tools/ImageSharing.html    
                Description: Basic information from CDC about breast cancer.    
                Keywords: social media,  Tools,  Image sharing, Health Communication    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Social Media at CDC

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# Image Sharing

Minus

Related Pages

### Overview

Image sharing is a valuable social media tool for sharing information and
making public health resources available to the public. Image sharing often
involves posting images (photos, artwork, etc.) to public Web sites where they
can be viewed, tagged, categorized, and even used by others.

### Image sharing at CDC

CDC not only participates in public image sharing sites, but has also created
its own site to share public health images.

Public Health Image Library

![Photo: Mosquito](/socialmedia/tools/images/IS-mosquito.jpg)

Public Health Image Library (PHIL)- The Public Health Image Library, or PHIL,
was designed to share CDC public health images. PHIL offers an organized,
universal electronic gateway to CDC's pictures. CDC welcomes public health
professionals, the media, laboratory scientists, educators, students, and the
public to use this material for reference, teaching, presentations, and public
health messages. PHIL content is organized into hierarchical categories of
people, places, and science, and is presented as single images, image sets,
and multimedia files.

Infographics

![infographics](http://www.cdc.gov/salt/images/infographic_small.jpg)Infographics-
CDC encourages the strategic use of infographics when the message is more
visual in nature and requires more than data or charts to communicate
successfully to the target audience.

Flickr

![Screen capture: Flickr](/socialmedia/tools/images/IS-flickr.png)

Flickr- View the CDC "photostream" on Flickr, a Web site designed for public
image sharing. CDC images include public health photos and graphics developed
for public health events that users can comment on and share.

Page last reviewed: December 27, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Social Media at CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidelines & Best Practicesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Writing for Social Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Buttons and Badges plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Health IQ_ Smartphone App
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Million Hearts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Solve The Outbreak 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vital Signsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diseases & Conditions 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emergency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Environmental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthy Living
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Injury, Violence & Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Training & Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Workplace Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Image Sharingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Online Video

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Content Syndication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mobile / Tablet Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Widgets

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:10 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:13 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM

