https://www.cdc.gov/socialmedia/tools/OnlineVideo.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/socialmedia/tools/OnlineVideo.html    
                Description: Basic information from CDC about breast cancer.    
                Keywords: social media,  Tools,  Online Video, Health Communication    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Social Media at CDC

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# Online Video

Minus

Related Pages

### Overview

Online video sharing is a popular and powerful activity for exchanging
information. Anyone with Internet access can upload, share, view and comment
on video footage, and this new ability to participate in video sharing is
becoming immensely popular. Using video-sharing sites to disseminate tailored
health education and health communication messages helps provide an engaging
experience for consumers to view and create health and safety information.
With people watching over 100 million clips a day, these online video sources
can be a powerful mechanism to assist CDC in distributing current and accurate
science and health messages.

### Online Video at CDC

CDC encourages the strategic use of online video-sharing sites to effectively
and inexpensively reach individuals with personalized and targeted health
information. CDC not only participates in YouTube, the most popular video-
sharing Web site, it also develops and hosts short consumer-friendly videos on
the CDC-TV Web site.

CDC-TV

Social_round_cdctv CDC-TV is a video-sharing site on CDC.gov that hosts short,
consumer-friendly videos that can be watched, downloaded and shared. View CDC
videos at www.cdc.gov/CDCTV.

YouTube

Social_round_youtubeThe CDC Streaming Health channel on YouTube currently
hosts over 2500 videos on a variety of health topics, from flu to HIV/AIDS and
many more. Visit CDC Streaming Health to watch, share and embed CDC videos on
your personal blog or Web site today!

Page last reviewed: December 27, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Social Media at CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidelines & Best Practicesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Writing for Social Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Buttons and Badges plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Health IQ_ Smartphone App
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Million Hearts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Solve The Outbreak 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vital Signsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diseases & Conditions 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emergency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Environmental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthy Living
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Injury, Violence & Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Training & Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Workplace Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Image Sharingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Online Video

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Content Syndication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mobile / Tablet Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Widgets

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:10 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:13 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM

