https://www.cdc.gov/socialmedia/tools/buttons/vitalsigns/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/socialmedia/tools/buttons/vitalsigns/index.html    
                Description: Basic information from CDC about breast cancer.    
                Keywords: social media,  Tools,  Buttons and Badges Gallery, Health Communication    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Social Media at CDC

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# Vital Signs

Minus

Related Pages

### About Vital Signs

CDC launched a program called CDC Vital Signs, which includes an MMWR Early
Release, a fact sheet and website, a media release, and a series of
announcements via social media tools.

Vital Signs will be released the first Tuesday of every month. Issues include
colorectal and breast cancer screening, obesity, alcohol and tobacco use, HIV
testing, seat belt use, cardiovascular disease, teen pregnancy and healthcare-
associated infections, asthma, and foodborne disease.

![CDC Vital
Signs](http://www.cdc.gov/vitalsigns/images/VitalSigns_logo-300px.jpg)

General Vital Signs

![CDC Vital Signs™ – Learn about the latest public health data. Read CDC Vital
Signs™…](http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/vitalsigns_150x120.jpg)

Copy the code below for this **"CDC Vital Signs ™ - Learn about the latest
public health data. Read CDC Vital Signs™…"** button (150 x 120): <a
href="http://www.cdc.gov/vitalsigns/index.html?s_cid=vitalsigns_004" title="DC
Vital Signs™ - Learn about the latest public health data. Read CDC Vital
Signs™…"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/vitalsigns_150x120.jpg"
style="width:150px; height:120px; border:0px;" alt="CDC Vital Signs™ - Learn
about the latest public health data. Read CDC Vital Signs™…" /></a>

![CDC Vital Signs™ – Learn about the latest public health data. Read CDC Vital
Signs™…](http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/vitalsigns_150x120-orange.jpg)

Copy the code below for this **"CDC Vital Signs ™ - Learn about the latest
public health data. Read CDC Vital Signs™…"** button (150 x 120):  
<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/vitalsigns/index.html?s_cid=vitalsigns_003"
title="DC Vital Signs™ - Learn about the latest public health data. Read CDC
Vital Signs™…"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/vitalsigns_150x120-orange.jpg"
style="width:150px; height:120px; border:0px;" alt="CDC Vital Signs™ - Learn
about the latest public health data. Read CDC Vital Signs™…" /></a>

### 2019 Vital Signs Buttons

Help Prevent Colorectal Cancer

![Tell your patients they need to get screened for colorectal cancer starting
at 50.](https://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/vs-0320-colorectal-
cancer-medscape-728x90.jpg)

Copy the code below for this button:

<a href="https://go.usa.gov/xd5pr" title="Tell your patients they need to get
screened for colorectal cancer starting at 50."><img
src="https://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/vs-0320-colorectal-
cancer-medscape-728×90.jpg" alt="Tell your patients they need to get screened
for colorectal cancer starting at 50." border="0″ /></a>

Help End the HIV Epidemic

![HIV tests determine the next step to staying healthy: HIV treatment or
prevention tools like
PrEP.](https://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/vs-1219-HIV-
medscape-728x90.jpg)

Copy the code below for this button:

<a href="https://go.usa.gov/xp9by" title="HIV tests determine the next step to
staying healthy: HIV treatment or prevention tools like PrEP."><img
src="https://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/vs-1219-HIV-
medscape-728×90.jpg" alt="HIV tests determine the next step to staying
healthy: HIV treatment or prevention tools like PrEP." /></a>

Preventing Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs)

![Recognize ACEs risk in children, history of ACEs in adults, and connect to
family support
services.](https://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/vs-1119-ACEs-
medscape-728x90.jpg)

Copy the code below for this button:

<a href="https://go.usa.gov/xVSXH" title="Recognize ACEs risk in children,
history of ACEs in adults, and connect to family support services."><img
src="https://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/vs-1119-ACEs-
medscape-728×90.jpg" alt="Recognize ACEs risk in children, history of ACEs in
adults, and connect to family support services." border="0″ /></a>

Recommend Vaccines during Pregnancy

![Help protect mothers and their babies from pertussis and flu by vaccinating
moms during
pregnancy.](https://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/vs-1019-Maternal-
Vaccines-medscape-728x90.jpg)

Copy the code below for this button:

<a href="https://www.cdc.gov/vitalsigns/maternal-vaccines" title="Help protect
mothers and their babies from pertussis and flu by vaccinating moms during
pregnancy."><img
src="https://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/vs-1019-Maternal-
Vaccines-medscape-728×90.jpg" alt="Help protect mothers and their babies from
pertussis and flu by vaccinating moms during pregnancy." border="0″ /></a>

Increasing naloxone dispensing

![Monitor for risk of opioid overdose, prescribe or dispense naloxone when
risk factors are present, and counsel patients on how to use it.
](https://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/vs-0819-Naloxone-
medscape-728x90.jpg)external icon

Copy the code below for this button:

<a href="<a href="https://go.usa.gov/xys4V">https://go.usa.gov/xys4V</a>"
title="Increasing naloxone dispensing"><img src="<a
href="https://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/vs-0819-Naloxone-
medscape-728×90.jpg">https://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/vs-0819-Naloxone-
medscape-728×90.jpg</a>" alt="Monitor for risk of opioid overdose, prescribe
or dispense naloxone when risk factors are present, and counsel patients on
how to use it. " border="0″ /></a>

Timing is critical in AFM

![ Timing is critical in AFM. Sudden limb weakness in patients - think AFM,
collect specimens, and report to health department. Early action is key for
better care, finding cause, and detecting
outbreaks.](https://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/vs-0719-Acute-
Flaccid-Myelitis-medscape-728x90.jpg)external icon

Copy the code below for this button:

<a href="<a href="https://go.usa.gov/xy2bU?s_cid=bb-
vitalsigns-308″>https://go.usa.gov/xy2bU?s_cid=bb-vitalsigns-308</a>" title="
Timing is critical in AFM. Sudden limb weakness in patients - think AFM,
collect specimens, and report to health department. Early action is key for
better care, finding cause, and detecting outbreaks."><img src="<a
href="https://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/vs-0719-Acute-Flaccid-
Myelitis-
medscape-728×90.jpg">https://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/vs-0719-Acute-
Flaccid-Myelitis-medscape-728×90.jpg</a>" alt=" Timing is critical in AFM.
Sudden limb weakness in patients - think AFM, collect specimens, and report to
health department. Early action is key for better care, finding cause, and
detecting outbreaks." /></a>

Rabies

![Ask patients about recent animal bites or scratches. Contact your state or
local health dept for help with risk assessments & PEP
recommendations.](https://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/vs-0619-Rabies-
medscape-728x90.jpg)external icon

Copy the code below for this button:

<a href="<a href="https://go.usa.gov/xmuCP?s_cid=bb-
vitalsigns-305″>https://go.usa.gov/xmuCP?s_cid=bb-vitalsigns-305</a>"
title="Ask patients about recent animal bites or scratches. Contact your state
or local health dept for help with risk assessments & PEP
recommendations."><img src="<a
href="https://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/vs-0619-Rabies-
medscape-728×90.jpg">https://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/vs-0619-Rabies-
medscape-728×90.jpg</a>" alt="Ask patients about recent animal bites or
scratches. Contact your state or local health dept for help with risk
assessments & PEP recommendations." /></a>

Pregnancy-related Deaths

![Help patients receive quality care and look for signs of complications
before, during, and after delivery.
](https://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/vs-0519-Pregnancy-
medscape-728x90.jpg)external icon

Copy the code below for this "Pregnancy" button:

<a title=" Help patients receive quality care and look for signs of
complications before, during, and after delivery." href="
https://go.usa.gov/xmZTG"><img
src="https://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/vs-0519-Pregnancy-
medscape-728×90.jpg " alt="Help patients receive quality care and look for
signs of complications before, during, and after delivery. " border="0″ /></a>

HIV

![Help patients stay in care and on
treatment.](https://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/vs-1118-HIV-
medscape-728x90.jpg)external icon

Copy the code below for this "HIV" button:

<a title="Viral suppression prevents HIV transmission through sex, but only
51% of people with HIV are virally suppressed."
href="https://go.usa.gov/xyx7c"><img
src="https://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/vs-1118-HIV-
medscape-728×90.jpg" alt="Help patients stay in care and on treatment."
border="0″ /></a>

Staph Infections

![Prevent staph infections and its spread to protect
patients.](http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/vs-0319-Staph-
infections-medscape-728x90.jpg)external icon  
Copy the code below for this button:

<a href="<a href="https://go.usa.gov/xEdYT">https://go.usa.gov/xEdYT</a>"
title="Nearly 20,000 patients died with bloodstream staph infections in
2017."><img src="<a
href="http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/vs-0319-Staph-infections-
medscape-728×90.jpg">http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/vs-0319-Staph-
infections-medscape-728×90.jpg</a>" alt="Prevent staph infections and its
spread to protect patients." /></a>

E-cigarettes

![In 2018, more than 1 in 4 high schoolers currently used tobacco products.
E-cigarettes were the main reason for the
increase.](https://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/vs-0219-Tobacco-
medscape-728x90.jpg)external icon  
Copy the code below for this "E-cigarettes" button:

<a href="https://go.usa.gov/xUtJS" title="Learn Vital Information about
Million Hearts"><img
src="http://www.cdc.gov/images/campaigns/vitalsigns/vs-0918-Million-Hearts-
medscape-728×90.jpg" alt="Learn Vital Information about Million Hearts" /></a>

Page last reviewed: February 14, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Social Media at CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidelines & Best Practicesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Writing for Social Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Buttons and Badges plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Health IQ_ Smartphone App
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Million Hearts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Solve The Outbreak 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vital Signsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diseases & Conditions 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Emergency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Environmental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthy Living
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Injury, Violence & Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Training & Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Workplace Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Image Sharingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Online Video

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Content Syndication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mobile / Tablet Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Podcasts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Widgets

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM

