https://www.cdc.gov/fungal/diseases/candidiasis/thrush/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/fungal/diseases/candidiasis/thrush/index.html    
                Description: Oral Candidiasis, Candidiasis that develops in the mouth or throat.    
                Keywords: fungi,  fungal,  infection,  fungus,  opportunistic infections,  hospital-associated infections,  community-acquired infections,  public health,  outbreaks, Fungal Diseases    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Fungal Diseases

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# _Candida_ infections of the mouth, throat, and esophagus

Minus

Related Pages

### About

Candidiasis is an infection caused by a yeast (a type of fungus) called
_Candida_. _Candida_ normally lives on the skin and inside the body, in places
such as the mouth, throat, gut, and vagina, without causing any problems.1
Sometimes, _Candida_ can multiply and cause an infection if the environment
inside the mouth, throat, or esophagus changes in a way that encourages fungal
growth.

Candidiasis in the mouth and throat is also called thrush or oropharyngeal
candidiasis. Candidiasis in the esophagus (the tube that connects the throat
to the stomach) is called esophageal candidiasis or _Candida_ esophagitis.
Esophageal candidiasis is one of the most common infections in people living
with HIV/AIDS.2

### Symptoms

Candidiasis in the mouth and throat can have many different symptoms,
including:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * White patches on the inner cheeks, tongue, roof of the mouth, and throat (photo showing candidiasis in the mouth)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Redness or soreness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cotton-like feeling in the mouth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Loss of taste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pain while eating or swallowing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cracking and redness at the corners of the mouth

Symptoms of candidiasis in the esophagus usually include pain when swallowing
and difficulty swallowing.  
Contact your healthcare provider if you have symptoms that you think are
related to candidiasis in the mouth, throat, or esophagus.

### Risk and Prevention

##### Who gets candidiasis in the mouth or throat?

Candidiasis in the mouth, throat, or esophagus is uncommon in healthy adults.
People who are at higher risk for getting candidiasis in the mouth and throat
include babies, especially those younger than 1 month of age, and people with
at least one of these factors:3-7

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Wear dentures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Have diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Have cancer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Have HIV/AIDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Take antibiotics or corticosteroids, including inhaled corticosteroids for conditions like asthma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Take medications that cause dry mouth or have medical conditions that cause dry mouth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Smoke

Most people who get candidiasis in the esophagus have weakened immune systems,
meaning that their bodies don't fight infections well. This includes people
living with HIV/AIDS and people who have blood cancers such as leukemia and
lymphoma. People who get candidiasis in the esophagus often also have
candidiasis in the mouth and throat.

##### How can I prevent candidiasis in the mouth or throat?

Ways to help prevent candidiasis in the mouth and throat include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Maintain good oral health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Rinse your mouth or brush your teeth after using inhaled corticosteroids

### Sources

_Candida_ normally lives in the mouth, throat, and the rest of the digestive
tract without causing any problems. Sometimes, _Candida_ can multiply and
cause an infection if the environment inside the mouth, throat, or esophagus
changes in a way that encourages its growth. This can happen when a person's
immune system becomes weakened, if antibiotics affect the natural balance of
microbes in the body, or for a variety of other reasons in other groups of
people.

### Diagnosis and Testing

Healthcare providers can usually diagnose candidiasis in the mouth or throat
simply by looking inside.8 Sometimes a healthcare provider will take a small
sample from the mouth or throat. The sample is sent to a laboratory for
testing, usually to be examined under a microscope.

Healthcare providers usually diagnose candidiasis in the esophagus by doing an
endoscopy. An endoscopy is a procedure to examine the digestive tract using a
tube with a light and a camera. A healthcare provider might prescribe
antifungal medicine without doing an endoscopy to see if the patient's
symptoms get better.

### Treatment

Candidiasis in the mouth, throat, or esophagus is usually treated with
antifungal medicine.6 The treatment for mild to moderate infections in the
mouth or throat is usually an antifungal medicine applied to the inside of the
mouth for 7 to 14 days. These medications include clotrimazole, miconazole, or
nystatin. For severe infections, the most common treatment is fluconazole (an
antifungal medication) taken by mouth or through a vein. If patient does not
get better after taking fluconazole, healthcare providers may prescribe a
different antifungal. The treatment for candidiasis in the esophagus is
usually fluconazole. Other types of prescription antifungal medicines can also
be used for people who can't take fluconazole or who don't get better after
taking fluconazole.

If you are a healthcare provider, click here to see the Infectious Diseases
Society of America's Clinical Practice Guidelines for the Management of
CandidiasisExternalexternal icon.

### Statistics

The exact number of cases of candidiasis in the mouth, throat, and esophagus
in the United States is difficult to determine because there is no national
surveillance for these infections. The risk of these infections varies based
on the presence of certain underlying medical conditions. For example,
candidiasis in the mouth, throat, or esophagus is uncommon in healthy adults.
However, they are some of the most common infections in people living with
HIV/AIDS.2 In one study, about one-third of patients with advanced HIV
infection had candidiasis in the mouth and throat.9

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC - Oral Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC - Dental Hygiene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC - Opportunistic infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidelines for the Prevention and Treatment of Opportunistic Infections in HIV-Infected Adults and Adolescentsexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidelines for the Prevention and Treatment of Opportunistic Infections in HIV-Exposed and HIV-Infected Childrenexternal icon

References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1. Nucci M, Anaissie E. Revisiting the source of candidemia: skin or gut?external icon Clin Infect Dis . 2001;33:195 9-67.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2. Buchacz K, Lau B, Jing Y, Bosch R, Abraham AG, Gil MJ, et al. Incidence of AIDS-defining opportunistic infections in a multicohort analysis of HIV-infected persons in the United States and Canada, 2000-2010external icon. J Infect Dis. 2016;214:862-72.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3. Epstein JB, Polsky B. Oropharyngeal candidiasis: a review of its clinical spectrum and current therapiesexternal icon. Clin Ther 1998;20:40-57.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4. Lynch DP. Oral candidiasis. History, classification, and clinical presentation.external icon Oral Surg Oral Med Oral Pathol 1994;78:189-93.c.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5. Pankhurst CL. Candidiasis (oropharyngeal)external icon. BMJ Clin Evid 2013;2013:1304.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6. Pappas PG, Kauffman CA, Andes DR, Clark CJ, Marr KA, Ostrosky-Zeichner L, et al. Clinical practice guideline for the management of candidiasis: 2016 update by the Infectious Diseases Society of Americaexternal icon. Clin Infect Dis 2016;62:e1-50.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7. Lalla RV, Latortue MC, Hong CH, Ariyawardana A, D'Amato-Palumbo S, Fischer DJ, et al. A systematic review of oral fungal infections in patients receiving cancer therapyexternal icon. Support Care Cancer 2010;18:985-92.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8. Coronado-Castellote L, Jimenez-Soriano Y. Clinical and microbiological diagnosis of oral candidiasisexternal icon. J Clin Exp Dent 2013;5:e279-86.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      9. Thompson GR, 3rd, Patel PK, Kirkpatrick WR, Westbrook SD, Berg D, Erlandsen J, et al. Oropharyngeal candidiasis in the era of antiretroviral therapyexternal icon. Oral Surg Oral Med Oral Pathol Oral Radiol Endod 2010;109:488-95.

Top of Page

Page last reviewed: December 17, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Foodborne,
Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases (DFWED)

home Fungal Diseases

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About Fungal Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Types of Fungal Diseasesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Aspergillosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * People at Risk & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosis & Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthcare Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Azole-resistant _Aspergillus_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * More Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * en espaÃ±olplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * DefiniciÃ³n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * SÃ­ntomas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Riesgo y prevenciÃ³n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Fuentes 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * DiagnÃ³stico y pruebas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tratamiento
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Profesionales de la salud 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * EstadÃ­sticas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Blastomycosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Risk & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosis & Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment & Outcomes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * More Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Candidiasisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Candida_ infections of the mouth, throat, and esophagus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vaginal candidiasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Invasive candidiasisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Risk & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Healthcare Professionals 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * More Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _Candida auris_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Coccidioidomycosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * People at Risk & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosis & Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment & Outcomes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Professionalsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Valley Fever: Timely Diagnosis, Early Assessment, and Proper Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * More Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mission and Community Service Groups: Be Aware of Valley Fever
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * en espaÃ±olplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * DefiniciÃ³n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * SÃ­ntomas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Las Personas en Riesgo y PrevenciÃ³n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Fuentes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * DiagnÃ³stico y ExÃ¡menes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tratamiento y Resultados
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Profesionales de la Salud
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * EstadÃ­sticas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _C. neoformans_ Infectionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * People at Risk & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosis & Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment & Outcomes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * More Resources 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _C. gattii_ Infectionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * People at Risk & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosis & Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment & Outcomes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * More Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fungal Eye Infectionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * People at Risk & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosis & Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment & Outcomes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * More Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fungal Nail Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Histoplasmosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * People at Risk & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosis & Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment & Outcomes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * More Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mucormycosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * People at Risk & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosis & Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * More Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mycetomaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Information for Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _Pneumocystis_ pneumonia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ringwormplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * People at Risk & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosis & Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment & Outcomes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Use of Steroid Creams
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * More Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sporotrichosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Sporothrix brasiliensis_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Other Fungal Diseasesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Paracoccidioidomycosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Talaromycosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Who Gets Fungal Infections?plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * People living with HIV/AIDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Organ Transplant Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cancer Patients 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hospitalized Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Stem Cell Transplant Patients 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Medications that Weaken Your Immune System
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Outbreaksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * For Public Health and Healthcare Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Whole Genome Sequencing and Fungal Disease Outbreaks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC at Workplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Burden of Fungal Diseases in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Global Fungal Diseasesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cryptococcal Meningitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Histoplasmosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Antifungal Resistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Think Fungus: Fungal Disease Awareness Weekplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social Media Messages
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fungal Disease Personal Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Terriâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mauricioâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Dawnâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Sabineâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Heidiâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kevinâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Kenâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Educational Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Resources for Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory Submission Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Reportable Fungal Diseases by State
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Features
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Isolate submission opportunity: Monitoring for Azole Resistance in _Aspergillus fumigatus_

Social_govd govD  Get Email Updates

Enter your email to get updates on _C. auris_

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Fungal Meningitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Division of Foodborne, Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mycotic Diseases Branch

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM

