https://www.cdc.gov/parasites/whipworm/Link: https://www.cdc.gov/parasites/whipworm/    
                Description: A parasite is an organism that lives on or in a host and gets its food from or at the expense of its host. Parasites can cause disease in humans.    
                Keywords: Parasites,  whipworm,  trichuriasis,  soil-transmitted helminths, Whipworm Infection (Trichuriasis), Parasitic Diseases    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Parasites - Trichuriasis (also known as Whipworm Infection)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# Parasites - Trichuriasis (also known as Whipworm Infection)

Minus

Related Pages

![Image: Left: Egg of T. trichiura in an iodine-stained wet mount. Right: Egg
of T. trichiura in an unstained wet mount. Center: Micrograph of an adult
female Trichuris human whipworm that is approximately 4cm
long.](/parasites/images/whipworm/home_page_image_whipworm.jpg)An estimated
604-795 million people in the world are infected with whipworm. Whipworm,
hookworm, and _Ascaris_ are known as soil-transmitted helminths (parasitic
worms). Together, they account for a major burden of disease worldwide.

Whipworms live in the large intestine and whipworm eggs are passed in the
feces of infected persons. If the infected person defecates outside (near
bushes, in a garden, or field) or if human feces as used as fertilizer, eggs
are deposited on soil. They can then mature into a form that is infective.
Whipworm infection is caused by ingesting eggs. This can happen when hands or
fingers that have contaminated dirt on them are put in the mouth or by
consuming vegetables or fruits that have not been carefully cooked, washed or
peeled.

People infected with whipworm can suffer light or heavy infections. People
with light infections usually have no symptoms. People with heavy symptoms can
experience frequent, painful passage of stool that contains a mixture of
mucus, water, and blood. Rectal prolapse can also occur. Children with heavy
infections can become severely anemic and growth-retarded. Whipworm infections
are treatable with medication prescribed by your health care provider.

_Image: Left: Egg of_ T. trichiura _in an iodine-stained wet mount. Right: Egg
of_ T. trichiura _in an unstained wet mount. Center: Micrograph of an adult
female_ Trichuris _human whipworm that is approximately 4cm long. Credit:DPDx,
PHIL._

Clipboard_01

General Information

Most common questions answered...

Search_02

Epidemiology & Risk Factors

Who gets it and how...

Lab_04

Biology

Stages of parasite development...

Medical_03

Disease

Signs and symptoms of the disease...

Lab_05

Diagnosis

Tests for infection...

Lab_03

Treatment

Medication and steps to take...

Lab_02

Prevention & Control

How to stay healthy or get better...

Medical_04

Resources for Health Professionals

What you need to know...

Page last reviewed: January 10, 2013

Content source: Global Health, Division of Parasitic Diseases

home Whipworm

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * General Information expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Whipworm FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Epidemiology & Risk Factors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Biology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Prevention & Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources for Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Additional Resources

Social_govd govD  Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Information For

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travelers

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Parasites A-Z Index
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Parasites Glossary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Neglected Tropical Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Laboratory Diagnostic Assistance [DPDx]

Contact Us

For Health Care Providers, Emergency Consultations, and General Public.

**Contact Us**

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

clipboard_01  search_02  lab_04  medical_03  lab_05  lab_03  lab_02
medical_04

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM

