https://www.cdc.gov/lyme/Link: https://www.cdc.gov/lyme/    
                Description: Information on Lyme disease. Provided by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.    
                Keywords: Lyme disease,  Lyme&#039;s disease,  Lymes disease,  bull&#039;s eye rash,  erythema migrans,  Borrelia burgdorferi,  lyme disease diagnosis,  Lyme disease research,  Lyme disease education,  Lyme disease prevention, Ticks, Lyme Disease (Borrelia burgdorferi Infection)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Lyme Disease

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# Lyme Disease

Minus

Related Pages

![all life stages of Ixodes scapularis--larva, nymph, adult male, and adult
female. Dime in background for scale.](/lyme/images/Lyme_ticks.jpg)

Lyme disease is the most common vector-borne disease in the United States.
Lyme disease is caused by the bacterium _Borrelia burgdorferi_ and rarely,
_Borrelia mayonii_. It is transmitted to humans through the bite of infected
blacklegged ticks. Typical symptoms include fever, headache, fatigue, and a
characteristic skin rash called erythema migrans. If left untreated, infection
can spread to joints, the heart, and the nervous system. Lyme disease is
diagnosed based on symptoms, physical findings (e.g., rash), and the
possibility of exposure to infected ticks.  Laboratory testing is helpful if
used correctly and performed with validated methods. Most cases of Lyme
disease can be treated successfully with a few weeks of antibiotics. Steps to
prevent Lyme disease include using insect repellent, removing ticks promptly,
applying pesticides, and reducing tick habitat. The ticks that transmit Lyme
disease can occasionally transmit other tickborne diseases as well.

Signs and Symptoms of Untreated Lyme Disease

Signs and symptoms of illness...

Treatment

Lyme disease is treated with antibiotics...

Diagnosis and Testing

Recommended tests...

Data and Statistics

How many people get Lyme disease?

Preventing Tick Bites

Avoid getting infected...

Transmission

How ticks spread Lyme disease...

Tick Removal and Testing

How to remove a tick...

Post-Treatment Lyme Disease Syndrome

If symptoms persist after treatment...

Health Care Providers

Clinical care information, CME links, and references...

Educational Materials

Brochures, fact sheets, trail signs, and more...

Lyme Disease Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)

All about Lyme disease...

Why is CDC concerned about Lyme disease?

And what we're doing to address these concerns…

Helpful Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What you need to know about Lyme carditis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Video: CDC Public Health Grand Rounds, Emerging Tickborne Diseases, March 21, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tickborne Diseases of the United States: A Reference Manual for Health Care Providers, Fifth Edition (2018)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Lyme Disease--Workplace Safety and Health

HHS Special Webinars on Lyme and Tickborne Diseases

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2019: Emerging Issues in Tickborne Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2017: Updates in Tickborne Disease Diagnostics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2016: Trends in Tickborne Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2015: Vaccines for Lyme Disease - Past, Present, and Future
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2014: Lyme Disease Persistence
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2013: Novel and Emerging Tickborne Diseases - Agents, Clinical Features, and Surveillance

Tickborne Diseases of the United States

![Tickborne Diseases of the United States: A Reference Manual for Healthcare
Providers Fifth Edition, 2018](/lyme/images/TBDManual_module.jpg)

Social_govdGet Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Page last reviewed: December 16, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Vector-
Borne Diseases (DVBD)

home Lyme Disease Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Preventing tick bitesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * On people
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * On pets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * In the yard
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lyme disease vaccine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tick removal and testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Signs and symptomsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lyme disease rashes and look-alikes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lyme disease stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lyme carditis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What you need to know about _Borrelia mayonii_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Diagnosis and testingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory tests that are not recommended
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * HHS federal research updates on Lyme disease diagnostics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Data and surveillanceplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * How many people get Lyme disease?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recent surveillance dataplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Lyme disease maps: Most recent year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Lyme disease charts and figures: Most recent year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Lyme disease data tables: Most recent year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Historical dataplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Lyme disease maps: Historical data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Lyme disease charts and figures: Historical data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Lyme disease data tables: Historical data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Surveillance case definitions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Surveillance explained and available data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MMWR reports and annual tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Post-treatment Lyme disease syndrome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Lyme disease FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Health care providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Educational materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Why is CDC concerned about Lyme disease?

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM

