https://www.cdc.gov/anaplasmosis/Link: https://www.cdc.gov/anaplasmosis/    
                Description: Anaplasmosis is a tickborne disease caused by the bacterium Anaplasma phagocytophilum. It was previously known as human granulocytic ehrlichiosis (HGE) and has more recently been called human granulocytic anaplasmosis (HGA).    
                Keywords: Anaplasmosis,  black-legged tick,  Ixodes scapularis,  western black-legged tick,  Ixodes pacificus, Ticks    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Anaplasmosis

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# Anaplasmosis

Minus

Related Pages

![Blacklegged tick on blade of grass](/anaplasmosis/images/index/anaplasmosis-
banner.jpg)

Anaplasmosis

Anaplasmosis is a tickborne disease caused by the bacterium Anaplasma
phagocytophilum.

Learn more

Anaplasmosis is a disease caused by the bacterium _Anaplasma phagocytophilum_.
These bacteria are spread to people by tick bites primarily from the
blacklegged tick ( _Ixodes scapularis_ ) and the western blacklegged tick (
_Ixodes pacificus_ ).

People with anaplasmosis will often have fever, headache, chills, and muscle
aches. Doxycycline is the drug of choice for adults and children of all ages
with anaplasmosis.

Transmission

Signs and Symptoms

Diagnosis and Testing

Treatment

Prevention

Epidemiology and Statistics

For Health Care Providers

For Public Health Officials

Doxycycline and Tooth Staining

Publications and Resources

![Button showing a female doctor with text stating: Would you recognize the
signs of a tickborne disease? Learn more while earning free
CE](/anaplasmosis/images/index/RecognizeSigns_B_325.jpg)

![Doxycycline saves lives button. ](/rmsf/images/doxy-400-anampalmosis.jpg)

Key Resources

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Epidemiology and statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * MMWR pdf icon[PDF - 48 pages]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tickborne Disease Manual

![MMWR Diagnosis and Management of Tickborne Rickettsial Diseases: Rocky
Mountain Spotted Fever and Other Spotted Fever Group Rickettsioses,
Ehrlichioses, and Anaplasmosis - United
States](/rmsf/images/TBRD_RR2016cover_Page_01.jpg)

MMWR - Diagnosis and Management of Tickborne Rickettsial Diseases: Rocky
Mountain Spotted Fever and Other Spotted Fever Group Rickettsioses,
Ehrlichioses, and Anaplasmosis -- United States pdf icon[PDF - 48 pages]

![clip art image of a can of bug repellent. ](/rmsf/images/home/repellent.jpg)

Avoid ticks

The first step for preventing this devastating disease is to prevent tick
bites.

![Clip art image of a tick being pulled from skin by a pair of
tweezers.](/anaplasmosis/images/index/tick_removal_step_2.jpg)

Remove ticks

If you find a tick attached to your skin, there's no need to panic--the key is
to remove the tick as soon as possible.

![Map of the U.S. showing where American dog ticks can be found. They can be
located in the eastern half of the U.S. and
California.](/rmsf/images/home/AmericanDogTick-Map.jpg)

Where ticks live

Not all ticks bite and transmit disease to people. Find out what which ticks
are spreading disease in your area.

Page last reviewed: January 11, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Vector-
Borne Diseases (DVBD)

home Anaplasmosis Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Signs and Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Diagnosis and Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Epidemiology and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * For Health Care Providers expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Transmission and Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Signs and Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinical and Laboratory Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Anaplasma Co-infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * For Public Health Officials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Research on Doxycycline and Tooth Staining
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Publication and Resources

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM

