https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/microcephaly.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/birthdefects/microcephaly.html    
                Description: Microcephaly is a birth defect where a babyâs head is smaller than expected when compared to babies of the same sex and age. Babies with microcephaly often have smaller brains that might not have developed properly.    
                Keywords: Microcephaly,  Zika virus,  birth defects, Birth Defects    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Birth Defects

Section Navigation

CDC Home

              * Facebook
              * Twitter
              * LinkedIn
              * Email
              * Syndicate

# Facts about Microcephaly

Other Languages

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)PortugueseFrench

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish) | Portuguese | French

Minus

Related Pages

**Microcephaly is a birth defect where a baby 's head is smaller than expected
when compared to babies of the same sex and age. Babies with microcephaly
often have smaller brains that might not have developed properly.**

![Microcephaly comparison](/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/microcephaly-
comparison-triple-350px.jpg)

Click here to view a larger image

##### Typical Head Size, Microcephaly and Severe Microcephaly Comparison

![Microcephaly comparison](/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/microcephaly-
comparison-triple-450px.jpg)

The images are in the public domain and thus free of any copyright
restrictions. As a matter of courtesy we request that the content provider
(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center on Birth Defects
and Developmental Disabilities) be credited and notified in any public or
private usage of this image.

Close

### What is microcephaly?

Microcephaly is a condition where a baby's head is much smaller than expected.
During pregnancy, a baby's head grows because the baby's brain grows.
Microcephaly can occur because a baby's brain has not developed properly
during pregnancy or has stopped growing after birth, which results in a
smaller head size. Microcephaly can be an isolated condition, meaning that it
can occur with no other major birth defects, or it can occur in combination
with other major birth defects.

### What is severe microcephaly?

Severe microcephaly is a more serious, extreme form of this condition where a
baby's head is much smaller than expected. Severe microcephaly can result
because a baby's brain has not developed properly during pregnancy, or the
brain started to develop correctly and then was damaged at some point during
pregnancy.

### Other Problems

Babies with microcephaly can have a range of other problems, depending on how
severe their microcephaly is. Microcephaly has been linked with the following
problems:

              * Seizures
              * Developmental delay, such as problems with speech or other developmental milestones (like sitting, standing, and walking)
              * Intellectual disability (decreased ability to learn and function in daily life)
              * Problems with movement and balance
              * Feeding problems, such as difficulty swallowing
              * Hearing loss
              * Vision problems

These problems can range from mild to severe and are often lifelong. Because
the baby's brain is small and underdeveloped, babies with severe microcephaly
can have more of these problems, or have more difficulty with them, than
babies with milder microcephaly. Severe microcephaly also can be life-
threatening. Because it is difficult to predict at birth what problems a baby
will have from microcephaly, babies with microcephaly often need close follow-
up through regular check-ups with a healthcare provider to monitor their
growth and development.

### How Many Babies are Born with Microcephaly?

Microcephaly is not a common condition. Researchers estimate that about 1 in
every 800-5,000 babies is born with microcephaly in the United States.

### Causes and Risk Factors

The causes of microcephaly in most babies are unknown. Some babies have
microcephaly because of changes in their genes. Other causes of microcephaly,
including severe microcephaly, can include the following exposures during
pregnancy:

              * Certain infections during pregnancy, such as rubella, toxoplasmosis, or cytomegalovirus
              * Severe malnutrition, meaning a lack of nutrients or not getting enough food
              * Exposure to harmful substances, such as alcohol, certain drugs, or toxic chemicals
              * Interruption of the blood supply to the baby's brain during development

Some babies with microcephaly have been reported among mothers who were
infected with Zika virus while pregnant. CDC scientists announced that enough
evidence has accumulated to conclude that Zika virus infection during
pregnancy is a cause of microcephaly and other severe fetal brain defects.

CDC continues to study birth defects, such as microcephaly, and how to prevent
them. If you are pregnant or thinking about becoming pregnant, talk with your
doctor about ways to increase your chances of having a healthy baby.

Zika Virus and Pregnancy

For information about the effects of Zika virus infection during pregnancy,
visit CDC's Zika and Pregnancy web page.

### Diagnosis

Microcephaly can be diagnosed during pregnancy or after the baby is born.

##### During Pregnancy

During pregnancy, microcephaly can sometimes be diagnosed with an ultrasound
test (which creates pictures of the body). To see microcephaly during
pregnancy, the ultrasound test should be done late in the 2nd trimester or
early in the third trimester. For more information about screening and
confirmatory tests during pregnancy, visit CDC's birth defects diagnosis web
page.

##### After the Baby is Born

To diagnose microcephaly after birth, a healthcare provider will measure the
distance around a newborn baby's head, also called the head circumference,
during a physical exam. The provider then compares this measurement to
population standards by sex and age. Microcephaly is defined as a head
circumference measurement that is smaller than a certain value for babies of
the same age and sex. This measurement value for microcephaly is usually more
than 2 standard deviations (SDs) below the average. The measurement value also
may be designated as less than the 3rd percentile. This means the baby's head
is extremely small compared to babies of the same age and sex.

Head circumference growth charts for newborns, infants, and children up to age
20 years in the United States can be found on CDC's growth charts website.
Head circumference growth charts based on gestational age at birth (in other
words, how far along the pregnancy was at the time of delivery) are also
available from INTERGROWTH 21stexternal icon. CDC recommends that health care
providers use the WHO growth charts to monitor growth for infants and children
ages 0 to 2 years of age in the United States.

Microcephaly can be determined by measuring head circumference (HC) after
birth. Although head circumference measurements may be influenced by molding
and other factors related to delivery, the measurements should be taken on the
first day of life because commonly-used birth head circumference reference
charts by age and sex are based on measurements taken before 24 hours of age.
The most important factor is that the head circumference is carefully measured
and documented. If measurement within the first 24 hours of life is not done,
the head circumference should be measured as soon as possible after birth. If
the healthcare provider suspects the baby has microcephaly, he or she can
request one or more tests to help confirm the diagnosis. For example, special
tests like like magnetic resonance imaging can provide critical information on
the structure of the baby's brain that can help determine if the newborn baby
had an infection during pregnancy. They also can help the healthcare provider
look for other problems that might be present.

Webinar on Surveillance

![Microcephaly Webinar Thumbnail](/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/surveillance-
microcephaly-webinar-thumb.png)

Download slidespdf icon | Download transcriptpdf icon

### Treatments

Microcephaly is a lifelong condition. There is no known cure or standard
treatment for microcephaly. Because microcephaly can range from mild to
severe, treatment options can range as well. Babies with mild microcephaly
often don't experience any other problems besides small head size. These
babies will need routine check-ups to monitor their growth and development.

For more severe microcephaly, babies will need care and treatment focused on
managing their other health problems (mentioned above). Developmental services
early in life will often help babies with microcephaly to improve and maximize
their physical and intellectual abilities. These services, known as early
interventionexternal icon, can include speech, occupational, and physical
therapies. Sometimes medications also are needed to treat seizures or other
symptoms.

### Other Resources

_The views of these organizations are their own and do not reflect the
official position of CDC._

**Mother To Baby** external icon **(on behalf of the Organization of
Teratology Information Specialists)  
**This website provides comprehensive information to mothers, healthcare
professionals, and the general public about exposures during pregnancy.

### References

              1. National Birth Defects Prevention Network. Major birth defects data from population-based birth defects surveillance programs in the United States, 2006-2010. Birth Defects Research (Part A): Clinical and Molecular Teratology. 2013;97:S1-S172.

Page last reviewed: February 18, 2020

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Birth Defects Homepage

              * What are Birth Defects?plus icon
                * Diagnosis
              * Preventing Birth Defectsplus icon
                * 5 Ways to Lower the Risk of Neural Tube Defects
              * Specific Birth Defectsplus icon
                * Anophthalmia / Microphthalmia
                * Anotia / Microtia
                * Cleft Lip / Cleft Palate
                * Congenital Heart Defectsplus icon
                  * Atrial Septal Defect
                  * Atrioventricular Septal Defect
                  * Coarctation of the Aorta
                  * D-Transposition of the Great Arteries
                  * Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome
                  * Pulmonary Atresia
                  * Tetralogy of Fallot
                  * Total Anomalous Pulmonary Venous Return
                  * Tricuspid Atresia
                  * Truncus Arteriosus
                  * Ventricular Septal Defect
                * Craniosynostosis
                * Diaphragmatic Hernia
                * Down Syndromeplus icon
                  * Data and Statistics
                  * Growth Charts
                * Esophageal Atresia
                * Gastroschisis
                * Hypospadias
                * Microcephaly
                * Neural tube defectsplus icon
                  * Anencephaly
                  * Encephalocele
                  * Spina Bifida
                * Omphalocele
                * Upper and Lower Limb Reduction Defects
              * Data & Statistics
              * Research & Trackingplus icon
                * MACDP
                * State-based Trackingplus icon
                  * Arizona
                  * Colorado
                  * Florida
                  * Illinois
                  * Kentucky
                  * Michigan
                  * Minnesota
                  * New Jersey
                  * Oklahoma
                  * Oregon
                  * Puerto Rico
                  * Rhode Island
                  * Texas
                  * Utah
                * CBDRPplus icon
                  * NBDPS
                  * BD-STEPS
                * Research Tools and Resources
              * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                * Down Syndrome
                * Healthy Pregnancy
                * Folic Acid and Birth Defects
                * Pregnant? Donât Smoke!
                * World Birth Defects Day
              * Materials & Multimediaplus icon
                * Fact Sheets
                * Coloring Pages
                * Infographicsplus icon
                  * Folic Acid and You
                  * Prevent to Protect
                  * Make a PACT for Prevention
                  * Birth Defects are Common, Costly, and Critical
                * Videos & Podcasts
                * Buttonsplus icon
                  * Best for You. Best for Baby.
                  * Prevent to Protect
                  * PACT
                * Quiz
              * BD Prevention Monthplus icon
                * Social Media
              * Real Storiesplus icon
                * Cleft Lip and Palate
                * Clubfoot
                * Craniosynostosis
                * Down Syndromeplus icon
                  * Meganâs Story
                  * Calebâs Story
                  * Bryton and Fenixâs Story
                  * Keatonâs Story
                  * Markâs Story
                * Eye Defects
                * Fetal Alcohol Syndrome Disorders
                * Gastroschisis
                * Heart Defectsplus icon
                  * Coarctation of the Aorta
                  * Hypoplastic left heart syndrome
                  * Tetralogy of Fallot
                  * Other types of heart defects
                * Omphalocele
                * Spina Bifidaplus icon
                  * Randi, Karen, & Robert
                  * Nikiaâs Story
                  * Dailyâs Story
                  * Eliâs Story
                  * Elleyâs Story
                  * Katieâs Story
                  * Zacharyâs Story
                  * Bethâs Story
                  * Henryâs Story
                  * Reneeâs Story
                  * Clarkâs Story
                  * Anifaâs Story
                * Share Your Story
                * Information for Healthcare Providers
                * Information for Familiesplus icon
                  * Finding Support
                  * Health Care Providerâs Role
                * Links to Other Resources
                * About CDCâs Work

![Zika and Pregnancy Button](/ncbddd/birthdefects/images/button-zika-
preg-180px.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

              * About CDC
              * Jobs
              * Funding
              * Policies
              * File Viewers & Players

              * Privacy
              * FOIA
              * No Fear Act
              * OIG
              * Nondiscrimination
              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

              * Facebook
              * Twitter
              * Youtube
              * Instagram
  

              * Syndicate
              * CDC TV
              * RSS
              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

              * Facebook
              * Twitter
              * LinkedIn
              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

