https://www.cdc.gov/cfsLink: https://www.cdc.gov/cfs    
                Description: Myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS) is a serious, long-term illness that affects many body systems. People with ME/CFS are often not able to do their usual activities.     
                Keywords: Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome

Section Navigation

CDC Home

    * Facebook
    * Twitter
    * LinkedIn
    * Email
    * Syndicate

# Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (ME/CFS)

en EspaÃ±ol

Minus

Related Pages

Myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS) is a serious,
long-term illness that affects many body systems. People with ME/CFS are often
not able to do their usual activities. At times, ME/CFS may confine them to
bed. People with ME/CFS have severe fatigue and sleep problems. ME/CFS may get
worse after people with the illness try to do as much as they want or need to
do. This symptom is known as post-exertional malaise (PEM). Other symptoms can
include problems with thinking and concentrating, pain, and dizziness.

According to an Institute of Medicine (IOM) report published in 2015, an
estimated 836,000 to 2.5 million Americans suffer from ME/CFS, but most of
them have not been diagnosed.

![A woman operator](/me-cfs/images/conference-call-sec.jpg)

### Stakeholder Engagement and Communication Call

![Missing My Life Youtube video credits](/me-cfs/images/missing-my-life-
flexslider.jpg)

###

Missing My Life Video

![Image of a woman who suffers from Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue
Syndrome \(ME/CFS\)](/me-cfs/images/blog-image.jpg)

###

America's Hidden Health Crisis: Hope for Those Who Suffer from ME/CFS

![social security building](/me-cfs/images/social-security.jpg)

###

Disability and ME-CFS

What is ME/CFS

Facts and possible causes

Symptoms and Diagnosis

Information for patients and families

Treatment

Managing symptoms and activities; coping

CDC's ME/CFS Program

Overview of CDC's work

ME/CFS in Children

Learn how ME/CFS affects kids

Living with ME/CFS

PSA, Stories from patients and their families

Information for Healthcare Providers

![healthcare workers](/me-cfs/images/healthcare-providers-350-small.jpg)

Medscape Continuing Medical Education (CME)

![members of medscape education](/me-cfs/images/mecfs-roundtable-small.jpg)

CDC is pleased to launch the third Medscape continuing medical education (CME)
activity for healthcare providers " **Diagnosing Myalgic
Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome: The Experts Weigh In**."

The goal is to increase recognition of symptoms of ME/CFS by using the
Institute of Medicine (IOM) diagnostic criteria for patient assessment. The
faculty include Lucinda Bateman, MD, Natalie Azar, MD, Nancy Klimas, MD, and
Jose Montoya, MD.

The video is intended for all healthcare providers with an emphasis on the
primary care providers. The course, hosted by Medscape, provides CME/CE
credit.

External Link Icon

Related Resources

    * NINDS/CDC Common Data Elements (CDEs) for Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (ME/CFS)external icon
    * Disability and ME/CFS
    * ME/CFS: Making strides to enhance the lives of those living with ME/CFS
    * NIH Director's Blog: Moving Toward Answers in ME/CFS, March 2017external icon
    * NIH ME/CFS websiteexternal icon
    * CFS Advisory Committee to HHSexternal icon
    * FDA Voice of the Patient pdf icon[PDF - 267KB]external icon
    * ME/CFS clinical trialsexternal icon

ME/CFS and Fibromyalgia International Awareness Day

![cfs awareness ribbon](/me-cfs/images/cfsawarenessday_a100px.png)

Beyond Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome: Redefining an
Illness

![Beyond Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome: Redefining an
Illness cover image](/me-cfs/images/iom-report-cover-sm-small.jpg)

In Beyond Myal­gic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome: Redefining an
Illnessexternal icon, the committee proposes new diagnostic criteria that will
facilitate timely diagnosis and care, and enhance understanding of this
complex disease among health care providers and the public.

Page last reviewed: January 17, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of High-
Consequence Pathogens and Pathology (DHCPP)

home ME/CFS

    * What is ME/CFSplus icon
      * Possible Causes
    * Symptoms and Diagnosisplus icon
      * Symptoms
      * Diagnosis
    * Treatment
    * ME/CFS in Childrenplus icon
      * Symptoms and Diagnosis of ME/CFS in Children
      * Treatment of ME/CFS in Children
      * ME/CFS in Children Fact Sheetsplus icon
        * Fact Sheet for Healthcare Professionals
        * Fact Sheet for Parents/Guardians
        * Fact Sheet for Education Professionals
    * CDCâs ME/CFS Programplus icon
      * Diagnosis and Treatment of ME/CFS Syndrome: A Systematic Review of the Evidence
      * Meetings
      * Multi-site Clinical Assessment of CFS
      * Wichita Clinical Study Data Access
    * Living with ME/CFSplus icon
      * Andrewâs Story 
      * Annâs Story
      * Lizâs Story 
      * Marleneâs Story
    * Information for Healthcare Providersplus icon
      * Presentation and Clinical Course of ME/CFSplus icon
        * Prognosis
        * Epidemiology
        * Etiology and Pathophysiology
      * Diagnosisplus icon
        * IOM 2015 Diagnostic Criteria
        * Proposed Approach to ME/CFS Diagnosis
        * Other Conditions for Evaluation
        * Comorbid Conditions
        * Evaluation
        * Factors Complicating the Diagnosis of ME/CFS
      * Clinical Care of Patients with ME/CFSplus icon
        * Treating the Most Disruptive Symptoms First and Preventing Worsening of Symptoms
        * Additional Strategies for Living with ME/CFS
        * Monitoring the Use of All Medicines and Supplements
        * Severely Affected Patients
      * Understanding History of Case Definitions and Criteria
    * Resourcesplus icon
      * Disability and ME-CFS

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

    * About CDC
    * Jobs
    * Funding
    * Policies
    * File Viewers & Players

    * Privacy
    * FOIA
    * No Fear Act
    * OIG
    * Nondiscrimination
    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

    * Facebook
    * Twitter
    * Youtube
    * Instagram
  

    * Syndicate
    * CDC TV
    * RSS
    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

    * Facebook
    * Twitter
    * LinkedIn
    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

