

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders (FASDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                  * Facebook
                  * Twitter
                  * LinkedIn
                  * Email
                  * Syndicate

# Living with FASD: Brenna

Minus

Related Pages

![Brenna, a young teen living with an
FASD.](/ncbddd/fasd/features/images/BrennaHeadshot-500px.jpg)

Brenna, a young teen living with an FASD.

**F** **etal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs) are disabilities that last a
lifetime.** Children with FASDs can have behavioral, intellectual and
neurological problems. FASDs can occur when a developing baby is exposed to
alcohol during pregnancy.

Brenna was diagnosed with an FASD when she was 12-years-old. She and her
mother, Heather, share Brenna's story.

### Brenna's Story

Heather and her husband Jason adopted Brenna and her three siblings from
foster care. Weighing just 4 pounds and 13 ounces at birth, Brenna was so
small that she came home wearing a doll's clothes.

For years, Brenna's parents struggled to get her accurately diagnosed. She had
been slow to reach many milestones as an infant and participated in early
childhood services for speech and physical therapy. She was small for her age
throughout elementary school. Brenna also struggled academically. She had
trouble staying on task, getting easily frustrated, and having outbursts and
tantrums both in school and at home.

It was also difficult for her to understand concepts such as time, money, and
organization. "When Brenna was in elementary school, she preferred to play
with preschoolers rather than kids her own age," her mother, Heather, recalls.
She also took everything literally. For instance, according to Heather when
she said, "her classmates might be talking behind her back, Brenna had replied
by saying that wasn't true, because she would hear them." It took Heather a
bit to figure out that when Brenna said that she thought she would hear them
because she took it to mean they would be right behind her back talking.

Brenna's older sister was first of the children to be diagnosed with an FASD;
Brenna was diagnosed later at the age of 12 years. Deciding if a child has an
FASD takes both a physical and developmental evaluation. Since there is no
biological test to diagnose FASDs, clinicians must assess a child's exposure
history, behavioral and intellectual function as well as look for neurological
and physical features. Also, many other disorders have similar symptoms which
must be ruled out. Among several other tests Brenna's evaluation included an
independent living/life skills test.

### Benefits of a Diagnosis

![At birth, Brenna weighed just 4 pounds and 13 ounces. She came home wearing
a doll’s clothes.](/ncbddd/fasd/features/images/BrennaDollOutfit-500px.jpg)

At birth, Brenna weighed just 4 pounds and 13 ounces. She came home wearing a
doll's clothes.

According to Brenna's mother, "Getting the diagnosis helped understand where
Brenna was coming from." Heather said that it helped them reframe the
challenges they faced. It wasn't that Brenna was being defiant or wouldn't do
things they asked of her, but rather that Brenna couldn't do it or lacked the
skills and ability. They had to give Brenna the space and time to do it.

Heather also commented that, "It was helpful to get the diagnosis since it
made available many resources in our area, including a support group. Being
part of the support group has helped us learn more about FASDs. It is a relief
to know there are other children with similar issues, who, for instance, must
also be reminded of personal hygiene, even though they are almost in high
school." The diagnosis also helps explain why Brenna could be disruptive in
school, as the classes might be too hard for her to follow.

According to Heather, "Hearing about similar examples helped one not feel so
alone. For instance, many of the children can't find their coats, shoes,
homework, or favorite toy they just had. Or how when they are done with
something, they just walk away, leaving it for you to pick up, clean up, or
put away. What takes typical kids weeks to master, may take your child months
or even years."

In addition to the support groupexternal icon, the diagnosis helped Brenna get
access to local services and ensured the school system had the information
they needed to best support her.

### Increasing Awareness in Her Community

![Brenna wearing her FASD strong
T-shirt.](/ncbddd/fasd/features/images/BrennaFASDStrong-500px.jpg)

Brenna wearing her FASD strong T-shirt.

Brave and cheerful, Brenna has been instrumental in increasing awareness about
FASDs in her school. After her diagnosis, she proudly wore her FASD T-shirt
depicting a strong woman and handed out buttons and flyers about this
condition. Her mother says, "I was a bit worried, wondering if she would be
able to handle the comments or teasing, but Brenna did great!"

Brenna is a kind and happy teen. She loves helping people and cares about her
friends and is always checking up on them. She also calls and checks on her
grandmother daily.

Brenna enjoys playing the piano and being in the choir. She also recently took
up junior varsity color guard and is looking forward to the competitions.

![Brenna practicing junior varsity color
guard.](/ncbddd/fasd/features/images/BrennaColorGuard-500px.jpg)

Brenna practicing junior varsity color guard.

CDC would like to give a special thanks to Brenna and her family and the
National Organization on Fetal Alcohol Syndrome (NOFAS)external icon for
sharing this story with us.

### CDC Activities

CDC has conducted fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASD) research,
identification, and prevention efforts since 1991. Key activities include

                  * Estimating how much and how often alcohol is consumed by women of reproductive age, including pregnant women;
                  * Supporting the implementation, adoption, and promotion of effective interventions, including alcohol screening and brief counseling;
                  * Promoting effective treatments for children, adolescents, and young adults living with FASDs and their families;
                  * Enhancing healthcare provider education on preventing, identifying, and treating people with FASDs;
                  * Providing FREE online training courses on preventing, diagnosing, and caring for people with FASDs;
                  * Offering FASD-related educational information and materials;
                  * Disseminating guidelines on alcohol use, including the Dietary Guidelines for Americansexternal icon; and
                  * Educating and informing the general public and policymakers about effective strategies for reducing excessive alcohol use, such as those recommended by the Community Preventive Services Task Force.external icon

More Information

                  * CDC Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders
                  * National Organization on Fetal Alcohol Syndrome (NOFAS)external icon

Page last reviewed: March 30, 2020

Content source: ï»¿ National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home FASD Homepage

                  * Basicsplus icon
                    * Secondary Conditions
                  * Alcohol Use in Pregnancyplus icon
                    * Questions & Answers
                    * Quiz
                  * Interventionsplus icon
                    * Alcohol Screening & Brief Intervention
                    * CHOICES: Preventing Alcohol-Exposed Pregnanciesplus icon
                      * CHOICES as a Strategy
                      * Implementing CHOICES
                      * Frequently Asked Questions
                      * Resources
                      * Articles
                  * Diagnosis
                  * Treatments
                  * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                    * State-Level Estimates 2016
                  * Research & Trackingplus icon
                    * Monitoring Alcohol Use
                    * International Research
                  * Training & Educationplus icon
                    * Online Training
                  * Articles & Key Findingsplus icon
                    * Living with FASD: Brenna
                    * Online Trainings on Alcohol-Free Pregnancy
                    * FASD Awareness
                    * Advise about Risky Alcohol Use
                    * Teen Substance Use & Risks
                  * Materials & Multimediaplus icon
                    * Fact Sheets & Brochures
                    * Posters & Print Ads
                    * Infographicsplus icon
                      * 5 Steps for Alcohol Screening and Counseling
                      * Alcohol Use During Pregnancy
                    * Videos & Podcasts
                    * Widgets
                    * Guidelines & Training
                  * My Story
                  * Information for Specific Groupsplus icon
                    * Women
                    * Families
                    * Healthcare Providers
                    * Educators
                    * Partnersplus icon
                      * Tools Â for Partners
                  * Links to Other Websites
                  * About Us

More CDC Alcohol Topics

                  * CDC Alcohol Portal
                  * Excessive Alcohol Use
                  * Binge Drinking
                  * Drinking & Driving 
                  * Underage Drinking
                  * Alcohol & Pregnancy

Learn more about the FASD Competency-Based Curriculum Development Guide for
Medical and Allied Health Education and  
Practice

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                  * About CDC
                  * Jobs
                  * Funding
                  * Policies
                  * File Viewers & Players

                  * Privacy
                  * FOIA
                  * No Fear Act
                  * OIG
                  * Nondiscrimination
                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                  * Facebook
                  * Twitter
                  * Youtube
                  * Instagram
  

                  * Syndicate
                  * CDC TV
                  * RSS
                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                  * Facebook
                  * Twitter
                  * LinkedIn
                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

