https://www.cdc.gov/breastfeeding/Link: https://www.cdc.gov/breastfeeding/    
                Description: Learn more about CDC    
                Keywords: breastfeeding, breast feeding, rates, practices, milk, breastmilk, breast milk, baby, infant, woman, women, recommendations, diseases, conditions, data, statistics, surveillance, research, promotion, support, policies, positions, resources, publications, faqs, frequently asked questions, guidelines, Breastfeeding    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Breastfeeding

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Breastfeeding

Minus

Related Pages

![Proper storage and preparation of breast
milk](/breastfeeding/images/flash/breastmilk-storage-647x336.jpg)

Discover CDC's handout on breast milk storage and preparation recommendations.

![Be Prepared. Continue breastfeeding during an
emergency.](/breastfeeding/images/flash/be-prepared_647x336.jpg)

Be Prepared

Continue Breastfeeding During an Emergency

![2018 Breastfeeding Report Card. New breastfeeding rates
available.](/breastfeeding/images/flash/breastfeeding-reportcard_647x336.jpg)

Breastfeeding Report Card, United States 2018

![Guide to Strategies to Support Breastfeeding Mothers and
Babies](/breastfeeding/images/flash/breastfeeding-guide_647x336.jpg)

Breastfeeding Guide

Guide to Strategies to Support Breastfeeding Mothers and Babies

CDC's Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity (DNPAO) is
committed to increasing breastfeeding rates throughout the United States and
to promoting and supporting optimal breastfeeding practices toward the
ultimate goal of improving the public's health.

alert icon

About Breastfeeding

Why it matters, what CDC is doing, making a difference.

chart icon

Data & Statistics

National and state data on breastfeeding rates, support indicators, infant
feeding practices, and maternity care practices.

clipboard icon

Guidelines & Recommendations

Human milk handling/storage, food safety after a natural disaster, safety in
maternity care and more.

people icon

Breastfeeding & Special Circumstances

Nutritional concerns, illnesses, exposures, vaccines, and medications/drugs.

book icon

Resource Library

CDC toolkits, reports, fact sheets, and more.

question icon

FAQS

Answers to frequently asked questions for healthcare providers and families.

### In the Spotlight

![A child eating cereal with a spoon](/breastfeeding/images/data/ifps-messy-
boy_285px-thumbnail.jpg)

**IFPSII Follow-up Study**  -  Infant Feeding Practices Study II: a
longitudinal study that followed about 2,000 mother-infant pairs from the
third trimester throughout the first year of life.

![Logo: Blueprint for Action on
Breastfeeding](/breastfeeding/images/sg_call_2011-thumbnail.jpg)

**The Surgeon General's Call to Action to Support Breastfeeding** - A Call to
Action to make it possible for every mother who wishes to breastfeed to be
able to do so.

![Data, Trends, and Maps](/breastfeeding/images/data-trends-maps-
icon-80x50-thumbnail.jpg)

**Data, Trends, and Maps**  - This interactive database that provides
information about the health status and behaviors of Americans, state-by-
state, via clickable maps, charts, and tables.

![CDC Vital Signs](/breastfeeding/images/vitalsigns-logotop-
man_285px-80x-thumbnail.jpg)

**Vital Signs **- Hospital Support for Breastfeeding: Preventing Obesity
Begins in Hospitals.

Page last reviewed: March 2, 2020

Content source: Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity,
National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion

home Breastfeeding

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Breastfeedingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Why It Matters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * What CDC Is Doing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Making A Difference
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Breastfeeding Report Card
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Breastfeeding Ratesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Survey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Analysis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Maternity Care Practicesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Survey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Scoring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hospital FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Public Opinions About Breastfeeding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Breastfeeding and Infant Feeding Practicesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidelines & Recommendationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Proper Storage and Preparation of Breast Milkplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food Safety for Infants After a Natural Disaster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Safety in Maternity Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Breast Milk Mix-Up
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Breastfeeding and Special Circumstancesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Contraindications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diet and Micronutrientsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Maternal Diet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Iodine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Iron
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vitamin B12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vitamin D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vitamin K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Maternal or Infant Illnesses or Conditionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Birth Defects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Breast Surgery
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ebola Virus Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food-borne and Waterborne Illness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Hepatitis B or C Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Herpes Simplex Virus (HSV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Influenza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Jaundice
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Lyme Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Malaria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Postpartum Depression
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Shingles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Toxoplasmosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * West Nile Virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Environmental Exposuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Anthrax
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Lead
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mercury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vaccinations, Medications, & Drugsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prescription Medication Use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tobacco and E-Cigarettes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Marijuana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Alcohol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travel Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Resources Libraryplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reportsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Call to Action
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Toolkits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Related Links
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheets & Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicated Content
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)

ï»¿

email_03Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this topic, enter your email address.

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity

![DNPAO logo](/nccdphp/dnpao/images/home/dnpao-links-logo_187px.png)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nutrition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Physical Activity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Overweight & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Healthy Weight
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Breastfeeding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Micronutrient Malnutrition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State and Local Programs

Related Topics

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nutrition

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM

