https://www.cdc.gov/ncezid/dfwed/diseases/brainerd-diarrhea/Link: https://www.cdc.gov/ncezid/dfwed/diseases/brainerd-diarrhea/    
                Description: Brainerd diarrhea, diarrhea, brainerd    
                Keywords: Brainerd diarrhea is a syndrome of acute onset of watery diarrhea (3 or more loose stools per day) lasting 4 weeks or longer, which can occur in outbreaks or as sporadic cases. It is named after Brainerd, Minnesota, the town where the first outbreak occurred in 1983.    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Division of Foodborne, Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases (DFWED)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Brainerd Diarrhea

Minus

Related Pages

What is Brainerd diarrhea?

Brainerd diarrhea is a syndrome of acute onset of watery diarrhea (3 or more
loose stools per day) lasting 4 weeks or longer, which can occur in outbreaks
or as sporadic cases. It is named after Brainerd, Minnesota, the town where
the first outbreak occurred in 1983. Patients typically experience 10-20
episodes per day of explosive, watery diarrhea, characterized by urgency and
often by fecal incontinence. Accompanying symptoms include gas, mild abdominal
cramping, and fatigue. Nausea, vomiting, and systemic symptoms such as fever
are rare, although many patients experience slight weight loss.

What causes Brainerd diarrhea?

Despite extensive clinical and laboratory investigations, the cause of
Brainerd diarrhea has not yet been identified. Although it is thought to be an
infectious agent, intensive searches for bacterial, parasitic, and viral
pathogens have been unsuccessful so far. The possibility remains that Brainerd
diarrhea is caused by a chemical toxin, but no such toxin has yet been found.

How can Brainerd diarrhea be diagnosed?

Because the etiologic agent is unknown, there is no laboratory test that can
confirm the diagnosis. Brainerd diarrhea should be suspected in any patient
who presents with the acute onset of nonbloody diarrhea lasting for more than
4 weeks, and for whom stool cultures and examinations for ova and parasites
have been negative. Care should be taken to exclude other causes of chronic
diarrhea, both infectious and noninfectious (e.g., lymphocytic colitis,
collagenous colitis, tumors, drug reactions). Brainerd diarrhea is not
characterized by any specific laboratory abnormalities. On colonoscopy,
petechiae, aphthous ulcers and erythema may be observed. Microscopic
examination of colonic tissue biopsy specimens often reveals mild
inflammation, with an increased number of lymphocytes, particularly in the
ascending and transverse colon. The stomach and small intestine generally
appear normal.

How can Brainerd diarrhea be treated?

There is no known curative treatment for Brainerd diarrhea. A variety of
antimicrobial agents have been tried without success, including trimethoprim-
sulfamethoxazole, ciprofloxacin, doxycycline, ampicillin, metronidazole, and
paromomycin. Neither has there been any response to steroids or
antiinflammatory agents. Approximately 50% of patients report some relief in
symptoms with high doses of opioid antimotility drugs, such as loperamide,
diphenoxylate, and paregoric.

Are there long-term consequences to Brainerd diarrhea?

Brainerd diarrhea usually resolves on its own or without specific medical
treatment.  Symptoms may last a year or more, and typically come and go.
Long-term follow-up studies have shown that almost all patients get better by
the end of 3 years. There have been no known cases of a person developing a
chronic condition after the acute onset of Brainerd diarrhea or of a person
relapsing once the illness has resolved completely.

How common is Brainerd diarrhea?

Seven outbreaks of Brainerd diarrhea have been reported since 1983. Six
occurred in the United States, five of which were in rural settings. One
outbreak occurred on a South American cruise ship based in the Galapagos
Islands. The original Brainerd outbreak, which involved 122 persons, was the
largest outbreak. An outbreak in Henderson County, Illinois, involved 72
persons; the Galapagos Islands outbreak involved 58. A survey of
gastroenterologists suggested that many patients who are not associated with a
recognized outbreak seek treatment for illness compatible with Brainerd
diarrhea. Further work needs to be done to establish the incidence of sporadic
cases of Brainerd diarrhea.

How do people get Brainerd diarrhea?

In the original Brainerd outbreak, raw (unpasteurized) milk was implicated as
the vehicle for disease transmission. Contaminated and inadequately
chlorinated or unboiled water has been identified as a source of Brainerd
diarrhea in several other outbreaks. For example, illness was strongly
associated with drinking untreated well water in the Henderson County
outbreak. Persons who drank the same water after it was boiled did not get
sick. Contaminated water was also implicated in the Galapagos Island outbreak.
The diarrheal illness does not spread contagiously from one person to the
next.

What can a person do to prevent this illness?

Avoiding drinking raw (unpasteurized) milk and water that has not been
properly chlorinated or boiled will help reduce the risk for Brainerd diarrhea
and many other diseases. Once the cause of Brainerd diarrhea is identified,
more specific prevention measures can be formulated.

What is being done about Brainerd diarrhea?

Outbreaks of Brainerd diarrhea have been extensively investigated by Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention and state health departments. Laboratory
investigation continues at CDC to try to identify the etiologic agent.

### Technical Information

Clinical Features

Profuse and chronic watery diarrhea typically associated with urgency and
incontinence that begins acutely and lasts from 2-36 months.

Etiologic Agent

Unknown.

Incidence

An estimated 5,000-8,000 patients with chronic diarrhea clinically similar to
Brainerd diarrhea are cared for by U.S. gastroenterologists each year.
Approximately every 3 years, CDC investigates an outbreak of Brainerd diarrhea
affecting 50-100 people.

Sequelae

No known sequelae; however, many people suffer adverse psychologic
consequences related to the long duration of an incapacitating illness.

How do people get Brainerd diarrhea?

In the original Brainerd outbreak, raw (unpasteurized) milk was implicated as
the vehicle for disease transmission. Contaminated and inadequately
chlorinated or unboiled water has been identified as a source of Brainerd
diarrhea in several other outbreaks. For example, illness was strongly
associated with drinking untreated well water in the Henderson County
outbreak. Persons who drank the same water after it was boiled did not get
sick. Contaminated water was also implicated in the Galapagos Island outbreak.
The diarrheal illness does not spread contagiously from one person to the
next.

Risk Groups

The elderly appear to be at greatest risk for Brainerd diarrhea, although
several cases among children and young adults have been described.

Surveillance

No surveillance system exists for Brainerd diarrhea or for other chronic
diarrheal syndromes of unknown etiology (e.g., collagenous colitis,
microscopic colitis).

Trends

Data are insufficient to indicate an increase or decrease in incidence.

Challenges & Opportunities

##### Challenges

Despite numerous intensive laboratory investigations, the etiologic agent of
Brainerd diarrhea remains a mystery. Histologic criteria for distinguishing
Brainerd diarrhea from other chronic diarrheal syndromes were developed from
outbreak-related specimens, but need to be evaluated in specimens from
patients with sporadic cases of chronic idiopathic secretory diarrhea.

##### Opportunities

Newer techniques, such as ribosomal RNA amplification on sterile site tissue
biopsies may shed new light on the etiologic agent. The histologic criteria
can be tested against specimens from a recent outbreak.

References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Afzalpurkar RG, Shiller LR, Little KH, Santangelo WC, Fortran JS. The self-limited nature of chronic idiopathic diarrhea. N Engl J Med 1992; 327: 1849-52.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Bryant DA, Mintz ED, Puhr N, Griffin P, Petras R. Colonic epithelial lymphocytosis associated with an epidemic of chronic diarrhea. Am J Surg Pathol 1996; 20:1102-1109.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Janda R, Conklin J, Mitros F, Parsonnet J. Multifocal colitis associated with an epidemic of chronic diarrhea. Gastroenterology 1991; 100: 458-464.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mintz, ED. Brainerd diarrhea turns 20: A riddle wrapped in a mystery inside an enigma. Lancet 2003; in press.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mintz, ED, Mishu B, Guris D, Griffin PM. Prevalence of brainerd type chronic diarrhea among patients of AGA and ACG members (abstract). Gastroenterology 1993; 104:A747.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mintz ED, Parsonnet J, Osterholm M. Chronic idiopathic diarrhea (letter). N Engl J Med 1993; 328: 1713-1714.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mintz ED, Weber JT, Guris D, et al. An outbreak of Brainerd diarrhea among travelers to the Galapagos Islands. _The Journal of Infectious Diseases_ , 1998;177:1041-45.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Osterholm MT, MacDonald KL, White KE, et al. An outbreak of a newly recognized chronic diarrhea syndrome associated with raw milk consumption. JAMA 1986; 256: 484-490.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Parsonnet J, Trock SC, Bopp CA, et al. Chronic diarrhea associated with drinking untreated water. Ann Intern Med 1989; 110: 985-991.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Parsonnet J, Wanke C, Hack H. Idiopathic chronic diarrhea. In: Infections of the Gastrointestinal Tract. MJ Blaser, PD Smith, JI Ravdin, HB Greenberg, RL Guerrant, editors. Raven Press, Ltd. New York 1995; 311-323.

 Top of Page

Page last reviewed: April 1, 2008

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Foodborne,
Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases (DFWED)

home Division of Foodborne, Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Who We Areplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Enteric Diseases Epidemiology Branch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Enteric Diseases Laboratory Branchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Table 1 version 5. Submission of Enteric Disease-associated Bacterial Isolates and Specimens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mycotic Diseases Branch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Outbreak Response and Prevention Branchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Foodborne Outbreak Response Team
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Capacity and Implementation Team
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Enteric Zoonoses Activity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prevention and Evaluation Activity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Waterborne Disease Prevention Branchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Promotion and Communication Team
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene Laboratory Team
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Domestic Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene Epidemiology Team
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Global Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene Epidemiology Team
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Outbreak Investigations 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Food Safety Officeplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Council to Improve Foodborne Outbreak Response (CIFOR)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global Health Unitplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Global Acute Diarrheal Diseases (GADD) Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Global Networks Make Food Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What We Doplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Protect the Publicâs Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Outbreak Responseplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Surveillance & Data Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 2017 Division Accomplishmentsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Emergency Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2017 U.S. Outbeaks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Sharing Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Working With States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Global Work
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 2016 Division Accomplishments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global Health Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Stories From the Fieldplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC partners with a private hospital in Nairobi to contain _Candida auris_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * U.S. Volunteers Get Sick from Fungus in Soil after Building Houses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Pilots WASH Training for Outbreak Response in Sierra Leone
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Community Discussions Key to Solving _E. coli_ Outbreak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stopping _C. auris_ in an Oklahoma Hospital
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Fights Cholera in Cameroon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clues Help Quickly Solve Outbreak of _E. coli_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fighting a Deadly Fungus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ohio Botulism Outbreak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Educational Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Features
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Medscape Commentariesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Food Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Healthy Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Fungus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Healthy Pets, Healthy People
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * A-Z Index of DFWED Topics

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Multistate Foodborne Outbreaks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Healthy Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food Safety at CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food Safety is a CDC Winnable Battle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food Safety Modernization ActExternal file_external 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FoodSafety.govExternal file_external 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Foodborne Illness A-Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fungal Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Waterborne Illness A-Z

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM

