https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/topics/pneumoconioses/Link: https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/topics/pneumoconioses/    
                Description: None    
                Keywords: Pneumoconioses    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search __ Search Icon Close Icon

Ã NIOSH

NIOSH All CDC

Submit __

For a full list of topics: All A-Z Topics

The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

![NIOSH logo and tagline](/niosh/images/si-no-left-vp4.png)

# Pneumoconioses

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Identification and Classification
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Medical Monitoring

![Section of Freeze-Dried Human Lung, Underground Miner, Coal Workers’
Pneumoconiosis \(Black
Lung\)](/niosh/topics/pneumoconioses/images/blacklung.jpg)

The pneumoconioses are a group of interstitial lung diseases caused by the
inhalation of certain dusts and the lung tissue's reaction to the dust. The
principal cause of the pneumoconioses is work-place exposure; environmental
exposures have rarely given rise to these diseases.

The primary pneumoconioses are asbestosis, silicosis, and coal workers'
pneumoconiosis (commonly referred to as CWP or black lung). As their names
imply, they are caused by inhalation of asbestos fibers, silica dust, and coal
mine dust. Typically, these three diseases take many years to develop and be
manifested, although in some cases - silicosis, particularly - rapidly
progressive forms can occur after only short periods of intense exposure. When
severe, the diseases often lead to lung impairment, disability, and premature
death. From a public health perspective, these conditions are entirely man-
made, and can be avoided through appropriate dust control.

Other forms of pneumoconioses can be caused by inhaling dusts containing
aluminum, antimony, barium, graphite, iron, kaolin, mica, talc, among other
dusts. There is also a form called mixed-dust pneumoconiosis. Overall, most
physicians do not encounter these diseases very frequently. Byssinosis, caused
by exposure to cotton dust, is sometimes included among the pneumoconioses,
although its pattern of lung abnormality is different from the pneumoconioses
listed here.

The 1995 NIOSH publication Criteria for a Recommended Standard - Occupational
Exposure to Respirable Coal Mine Dust established a recommended exposure limit
(REL) for coal mine dust. In 2011, NIOSH published a Current Intelligence
Bulletin that updated the information on coal mine dust exposures and
associated health effects from 1995 to the present. In 2012, the Government
Accountability Office (GAO) reviewed the analytical methods used by NIOSH to
establish its REL. GAO's Reports and Key Studies Support the Scientific
Conclusions Underlying the Proposed Exposure Limit for Respirable Coal Mine
DustExternal found that these analytical methods were appropriate and that
achieving the NIOSH REL would reduce miners' risk of respiratory disease over
a working lifetime.

###  Pneumoconiosis Identification and Classification

The pneumoconioses are typically detected in living individuals through the
use of radiological imaging. Traditionally this has been the chest x-ray,
taken on film, but now increasingly being acquired through digital computer
technology. The International Labor Office (ILO) provides guidelinesExternal
for the systematic scientific classification of radiographs of the
pneumoconioses. NIOSH operates the B Reader Program whereby physicians can
take an examination to document their proficiency in classifying radiographs
for various dust-related abnormalities using the ILO guidelines.

###  Medical Monitoring for the Pneumoconioses

NIOSH operates the Coal Workers' Health Surveillance Program, a worker
monitoring program for underground coal miners in the U.S. This program was
mandated by the 1969 Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act and is intended
to prevent coal workers' pneumoconiosis through early detection of disease and
voluntary mine transfer to low dust jobs. Aspects of the program of potential
interest are:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. Frequently Asked Questions and Resource List
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. Miner Identification Form  
En españolCdc-pdf  
(OMB 0920-0020) (CDC/NIOSH 2.9) (December 2009)  
This form must be completed by the miner and accompany all x-rays sent to
NIOSH for interpretation as part of the Coal Workers' X-ray Surveillance
Program. Mail to the address on the form. Do NOT send this form electronically
to NIOSH. Print/Copy as a double-sided form.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3. Mine X-ray Plans Due for Renewal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4. X-ray Facilities Database Search Form

NIOSH is currently operating the Enhanced Coal Workers' Health Surveillance
Program, whereby a mobile examination unit visits various locations in the
coal fields. Findings are provided for each of the surveys.

Guidance on radiological classification methods and practices in worker
monitoring for the pneumoconioses is provided under Chest Radiography.

Page last reviewed: October 13, 2011

Content source: National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health

home Workplace Safety and Health Topics

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pneumoconioses expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other Resources

#### Related Topics

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Occupational Respiratory Disease Surveillance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Abrasive Blasting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Asbestos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Silica
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Spirometry Training

#### Follow NIOSH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * fb Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * pinterest Pinterest
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * twitter Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * youtube YouTube

#### NIOSH Homepage

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * NIOSH A-Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Workplace Safety & Health Topics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publications and Products
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Contact NIOSH

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

##### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM

