https://www.cdc.gov/botulism/Link: https://www.cdc.gov/botulism/    
                Description: Botulism poisoning is a rare but serious illness caused by a toxin that attacks the bodyâs nerves. Learn what to do if you or someone else shows symptoms.    
                Keywords: human botulism,  Clostridium botulinum,  C botulinum,  CB toxin,  botulinum toxin,  neuroparalysis,  neurotoxin,  food-borne botulism,  FBB,  wound botulism,  WB, Botulism    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Botulism

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Botulism

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

Botulism is a rare but serious illness caused by a toxin that attacks the
body's nerves.

Symptoms of botulism usually start with weakness of the muscles that control
the eyes, face, mouth, and throat. This weakness may spread to the neck, arms,
torso, and legs. Botulism also can weaken the muscles involved in breathing,
which can lead to difficulty breathing and even death.

**If you or someone you know has symptoms of botulism, see your doctor or go
to the emergency room immediately.**

![honey](/botulism/images/honey_928px.jpg)

### Botulism in Infants

We don't know how most babies with infant botulism came into contact with _C.
botulinum_ spores, but we do know that these spores can be found in honey. Do
not feed honey to children younger than 12 months because it has been linked
to some cases of infant botulism.

![Botulism alert with sleeping baby warning parents to not give babies honey
pacifiers](/botulism/images/GettyImages-920978830-baby-alert.png)

###

ALERT: Several babies in Texas have become ill with infant botulism after
using honey pacifiers. Find out more from FDA.gov >

External Link Icon

![Jars of canned
vegetables](/botulism/images/iStock-000064653459-jars-524.jpg)

### Protect Yourself from Botulism

Foodborne botulism is often caused by eating home-canned foods that have not
been canned properly. Commercially canned foods are much less likely to be a
source of botulism because modern commercial canning processes kill _C.
botulinum_ spores.

![fish](/botulism/images/fish_928px.jpg)

### Foodborne Botulism

Foodborne botulism can be caused by a food that is not prepared or stored
properly. In Alaska, foodborne botulism is often caused by traditional Alaska
Native foods, including fermented fish, because of the way these foods are
sometimes prepared or stored.

![Two syringes on white
background](/botulism/images/iStock-140389053-syringe-675px.jpg)

### Wound Botulism

Sometimes a wound can get infected with _C. botulinum_. The most common way
this happens is when a contaminated illicit drug, such as black tar heroin, is
injected into muscle or skin. Wound botulism also has been reported following
traumatic injuries, such as motorcycle crashes and surgeries.

About Botulism

Kinds of Botulism

Symptoms

Diagnosis & Treatment

Prevention

People at Risk

Surveillance

Bioterrorism

Resources & Publications

Info for Health Professionals

![Three doctors female doctor in
foreground](/botulism/images/iStock-518063670-doctors.png)

Get in-depth information on botulism and resources for diagnosing and caring
for patients with botulism.

Submit a Specimen

![Microscope](/botulism/images/iStock-507803406-microscope.jpg)

CDC offers laboratory confirmation of botulism by testing human specimens and
foods.

Info for Home Canners

![Canning: Pressure Cooker used for Preserving Homegrown Fruits
Vegetables](/botulism/images/iStock-161176899-home-cooker.jpg)

Home canning is a great way to preserve garden produce, but it can be risky -
or even deadly - if not done correctly.

Page last reviewed: August 19, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID) , Division of
Foodborne, Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases (DFWED)

home Botulism

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Botulism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Kinds of Botulism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosis & Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevention expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Home-canned Foods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Alaska Native Foods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * People at Risk expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * People Who Inject Drugs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * People Who Drink Pruno
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * For Health Professionals expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Submit a Specimen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Surveillance expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * National Botulism Surveillance Summary 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Bioterrorism expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Threat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Preparedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Detection and Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Resources & Publications

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM

