https://www.cdc.gov/anthraxLink: https://www.cdc.gov/anthrax    
                Description: None    
                Keywords: anthrax, Bacillus anthracis, Cutaneous, Inhalation, Gastrointestinal    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Anthrax

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Anthrax

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

![Slideshow image 1: The type of illness a person develops depends on how
anthrax spores enter the body. All types of anthrax can cause death if they
are not treated with antibiotics. ](/anthrax/images/illustrations/flex-
slider-1.jpg)

###

![Slideshow image 2: Domestic and wild animals such as cattle, sheep, goats,
antelope, and deer can become infected when they inhale or ingest spores in
contaminated soil, plants, or water.](/anthrax/images/illustrations/flex-
slider-2.jpg)

###

![Slideshow image 1: Anthrax can be found naturally in soil and commonly
affects domestic and wild animals around the
world.](/anthrax/images/illustrations/flex-slider-3.jpg)

###

![Slideshow image 4: Anthrax is thought to have originated in Egypt and
Mesopotamia. Learn more about the history of naturally occuring anthrax and
its use as a biological weapon.](/anthrax/images/illustrations/flex-
slider-4.jpg)

###

#### Anthrax is a serious infectious disease caused by gram-positive, rod-
shaped bacteria known as _Bacillus anthracis_. Although it is rare, people can
get sick with anthrax if they come in contact with infected animals or
contaminated animal products.

Basic Info

Symptoms  
Who is at Risk of Exposure  
Types of Anthrax

Bioterrorism

The Threat  
Preparedness

Medical Care

Prevention  
Treatment

Laboratory Testing

Laboratory Response Network  
FAQs

Resources

A History of Anthrax

Recommendations

Information for Specific Groups

![scientist icon](/anthrax/images/illustrations/scientist-75.jpg)

**LABORATORY PROFESSIONALS**



* * *

![illustration of hiker with walking
stick](/anthrax/images/illustrations/hiker-75.jpg)

**PEOPLE TRAVELING OUT OF COUNTRY**



* * *

![drum icon](/anthrax/images/illustrations/drums-75.jpg)

**PEOPLE WHO HANDLE ANIMAL PRODUCTS**



* * *

![stethoscope icon](/anthrax/images/illustrations/stethoscope-75.jpg)

**HEALTHCARE PROVIDERS**

Page last reviewed: January 31, 2017

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)

home Anthrax

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Basic Information expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Types of Anthrax expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Cutaneous Anthrax
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Inhalation Anthrax
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gastrointestinal Anthrax
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Injection Anthrax
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How People Are Infected
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * What to Do if You Think Youâve Been Exposed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Understanding Anthrax â Alt Languages
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Who Is At Risk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Medical Care expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevention expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Emergency Use Instructions (EUI) for Doxycycline and Ciprofloxacin for Post-exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) of Anthrax expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Doxycycline Fact Sheet for Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Doxycycline Fact Sheet for Recipients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Doxycycline Preparation Instructions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ciprofloxacin Fact Sheet for Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ciprofloxacin Fact Sheet for Recipients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Bioterrorism expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Threat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Preparedness expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * What You Can Do to Prepare
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * What CDC is Doing to Prepare
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Detection and Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Worker Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory Testing expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Confirming Anthrax Through the Laboratory Response Network
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Information for Specific Groups expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Laboratory Professionals expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Collecting Specimens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Recommended Specimens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Worker Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * People Who Handle Animal Products expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Exposure to Hides/Drums
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment of Products
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Protection from Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Importation of Animal Products
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Worker Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * News and Multimedia expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Animations and Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hungry, Hungry Hippos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Florida Retiree Getsâand SurvivesâAnthrax
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archived Press Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Lab Incident: Anthrax
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Resources expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * A History of Anthrax
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Recommendations expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Anthrax Case Investigation Epi-Info Database
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Anthrax Framework
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Anthrax-Related EID Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Anthrax-Related MMWRs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Medscape Commentaries

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM

