https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/virus-families/bunyaviridae.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/virus-families/bunyaviridae.html    
                Description: None    
                Keywords: vhf, viral hemorrhagic fevers, arenaviridae, filoviridae, bunyaviridae, flaviviridae, paramyxoviridae    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Viral Hemorrhagic Fevers (VHFs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# _Bunyaviridae_

Minus

Related Pages

The _Bunyaviridae_ are a very large family of single-strand, enveloped RNA
viruses (more than 300 viruses) and consists of five genera of viruses:
_Orthobunyavirus_ , _Phlebovirus_ , _Nairovirus_ , _Hantavirus_ , and
_Tospovirus_ (Tospoviruses infect only plants). They are found in and
transmitted by arthropods (e.g. mosquitoes, ticks, sand flies) and rodents,
and can occasionally infect humans. Several viruses of the _Bunyaviridae_
virus family can produce mild to severe disease in human, in animals, and
sometimes in both. This is the base for the requirements of handling some of
these viruses in high containment (Biosafety Level 3 or even Biosafety level
4).

Among the Phleboviruses, Rift Valley fever virus, was first isolated in 1930
as part of a large outbreak among sheep in East Africa. This virus,
transmitted by mosquitoes, is endemic (present) in nearly all the countries in
sub-Saharan Africa. Human isolated cases and large epidemics (domestic
livestock and human) have been described in several countries and even in the
Arabic peninsula.

Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever (CCHF) virus, of the _Nairovirus_ genus, was
first recognized in the Crimean peninsula (in the south of present day
Ukraine) in an outbreak of hemorrhagic fever among agricultural workers. The
same virus was isolated in 1956 from a single patient in present day
Democratic Republic of Congo in Kenya, leading to the actual naming. Although
animal and human can be infected, only the later develop a disease. The virus
is transmitted by tick, but human-to-human transmission of the virus is very
characteristic.

Hantaviruses were first observed in the early 1950's among troops deployed in
the Korean conflict. Eventually named Hantaan virus after the nearby Hantaan
River where the human cases occurred, the field mouse ( _Apodemus agrarius_ )
was discovered to be the specific rodent host for the virus. The disease is
actually known as Hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS) and described
in the Old World. Following a cluster of cases of severe illness, called
Hantavirus pulmonary syndrome (HPS), in the American southwest in 1993, a
newly identified virus, called the Sin Nombre virus, was isolated. Related
viruses, but responsible for the same clinical disease, are described in the
New World (North, Central and South America).

![The Arenaviridae are a family of viruses whose members are generally
associated with rodent-transmitted diseases in humans.](/vhf/virus-
families/images/bunyaviridae-small.jpg)

Page last reviewed: June 18, 2013

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of High-
Consequence Pathogens and Pathology (DHCPP), Viral Special Pathogens Branch
(VSPB)

ï»¿

home Viral Hemorrhagic Fevers (VHFs)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Virus Familiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Arenavirusesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Old World/New World Arenaviruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Bunyaviruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Filoviruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Flaviviruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Information for Specific Groupsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Information for Working and Living Abroadplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Humanitarian Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Information for Healthcare Workersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Assessing Viral Hemorrhagic Fever Risk in a Returning Traveler 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Assessing Fever in a Returning Traveler with No Risk of Viral Hemorrhagic Fever
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Diagnoses for Consideration in a Returning Traveler with Fever
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Infection Control for Viral Haemorrhagic Fevers in the African Health Care Setting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diseases

VHFs caused by Bunyaviruses

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever (CCHF)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hantavirus Pulmonary Syndrome (HPS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Rift Valley fever

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM

