https://www.cdc.gov/rsv/Link: https://www.cdc.gov/rsv/    
                Description: Respiratory syncytial (sin-SISH-uhl) virus, or RSV, is a respiratory virus that infects the lungs and breathing passages.    
                Keywords: rsv,  rsv infection,  rsv virus,  rsv symptoms,  rsv disease,  rsv respiratory,  rsv in infants,  Respiratory Disease,  respiratory syncytial virus,  rsv surveillance,  rsv clinical information,  rsv transmission,  preventing rsv,  rsv prevention, Respiratory Syncytial Virus Infection (RSV)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Respiratory Syncytial Virus Infection (RSV)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) Infection

Minus

Related Pages

![grandmother holding infant granddaughter against her
shoulder](/rsv/images/baby-grandmother-vp1.jpg)

Respiratory syncytial (sin-SISH-uhl) virus, or RSV, is a common respiratory
virus that usually causes mild, cold-like symptoms. Most people recover in a
week or two, but RSV can be serious, especially for infants and older adults.
In fact, RSV is the most common cause of bronchiolitis (inflammation of the
small airways in the lung) and pneumonia (infection of the lungs) in children
younger than 1 year of age in the United States. It is also a significant
cause of respiratory illness in older adults.

Have more questions? See About RSV.

lab icon

About RSV

Symptoms, caring for someone sick with RSV, how RSV spreads, and how you can
help prevent infection

crowd icon

People at High Risk for Severe RSV

Overview of the people at high risk for severe RSV infection

medical icon

Healthcare Professionals

Clinical features, RSV management, diagnosis, laboratory testing, and
prophylaxis for patients at high risk for severe illness

lab icon

Research & Surveillance

Seasonal trends, surveillance for RSV activity, and information about a
program to prevent RSV in Alaskan Natives

device icon

Multimedia

RSV fact sheet, web feature, podcast, and infographic that can be embedded on
web pages

book icon

References & Resources

Selected scientific articles related to RSV

![Protect Your Child from RSV infographic](/rsv/images/rsvProtection_vp1.jpg)

Learn more about preventing RSV

Want to Know More About RSV?

![](/rsv/images/PreventRSV_145px.png)

Download CDC's mobile app now!  
Click "Disease of the Week," find RSV, and take the quiz to test your
knowledge!  
Available on iOS and Android tablets.

Fast Facts

![Baby girl with teddybear](/rsv/images/baby-teddybear_thmb.jpg)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Almost all children will be infected with RSV by their second birthday.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSV usually causes mild respiratory illness, but it can be serious, especially in infants and older adults.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSV is the most common cause of bronchiolitis and pneumonia in children younger than 1 year of age.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * In the U.S., RSV infections generally occur during fall, winter, and spring.

Read More

CDC Featured Podcast

![Podcast](/rsv/images/podcast.jpg)

Dr. Eileen Schneider talks about RSV, a common cause of respiratory illness in
young children.

Listen To This Podcast (4:22)

Page last reviewed: June 26, 2018

Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases
(NCIRD), Division of Viral Diseases

home RSV Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About RSV expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Symptoms and Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * People at High Risk for RSV expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infants and Young Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Older Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * For Healthcare Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research & Surveillance expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Trends and Surveillance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSV in Alaskan Native Infants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Multimedia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * References & Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM

