https://www.cdc.gov/parasites/fasciola/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/parasites/fasciola/index.html    
                Description: Education and information about fasciola and fascioliasis, including fact sheets and information on prevention and control, epidemiology, diagnosis and treatment.    
                Keywords: human hookworm, Parasitic Diseases    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Parasites

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Parasites - Fascioliasis (Fasciola Infection)

Minus

Related Pages

![Fasciola hepatica
gallery](/parasites/images/fasciola/home_page_image_fasciola2.jpg)

Fascioliasis is a parasitic infection typically caused by _Fasciola hepatica_
, which is also known as "the common liver fluke" or "the sheep liver fluke."
A related parasite, _Fasciola gigantica_ , also can infect people.
Fascioliasis is found in all continents except Antarctica, in over 70
countries,  especially where there are sheep or cattle. People usually become
infected by eating raw watercress or other water plants contaminated with
immature parasite larvae. The young worms move through the intestinal wall,
the abdominal cavity, and the liver tissue, into the bile ducts, where they
develop into mature adult flukes that produce eggs. The pathology typically is
most pronounced in the bile ducts and liver. _Fasciola_ infection is both
treatable and preventable.

**Above Images:** Left: _Fasciola hepatica_ egg in an unstained wet mount
(400x magnification). _F. hepatica_ eggs are broadly ellipsoidal, operculated,
and measure 130-150 μm by 60-90 µm. Center: Adult _Fasciola hepatica_ fluke
stained with carmine (30mm x 13mm). Right: _Fossaria bulamoides_ , a snail
host for _F. hepatica_ in the western United States. (Credit: _DPDx_ ;
Conchology, Inc., Mactan Island, Philippines)

.

Clipboard_01

About Fasciola

Most common questions answered...

Search_02

Epidemiology & Risk Factors

Who gets it and how...

Lab_04

Biology

Stages of parasite development...

Medical_03

Disease

Signs and symptoms of the disease...

Lab_05

Diagnosis

Tests for infection...

Lab_03

Treatment

Medication and steps to take...

Lab_02

Prevention & Control

How to stay healthy or get better...

Medical_04

Resources for Health Professionals

What you need to know...

Page last reviewed: December 31, 2018

Content source: Global Health, Division of Parasitic Diseases

home Fasciola

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Fasciola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Epidemiology & Risk Factors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Biology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevention & Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Resources for Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Our Division

Social_govd govD  Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Parasites A-Z Index
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Parasites Glossary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Neglected Tropical Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory Diagnostic Assistance [DPDx]

Contact Us

For Health Care Providers, Emergency Consultations, and General Public.

**Contact Us**

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

clipboard_01  search_02  lab_04  medical_03  lab_05  lab_03  lab_02
medical_04

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM

