https://www.cdc.gov/healthypets/pets/fish.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/healthypets/pets/fish.html    
                Description: Pets provide many benefits to humans. They comfort us and they give us companionship. However, some animals can also pass diseases to people. These diseases are called zoonoses.    
                Keywords: pets, zoonoses, zoonosis, reptiles, turtles, dogs, cats, healthy pets, healthy people, animals, animal health    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Healthy Pets, Healthy People

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Fish

Minus

Related Pages

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * More Information

**Credit: CDC thanks Michael Stoskopf, DVM, PhD, Diplomate, American College
of Zoological Medicine, and an aquatic medicine specialist at the North
Carolina State University College of Veterinary Medicine, for his careful
review of these pages.**

![Brightly colored fish swimming in an
aquarium.](/healthypets/images/aquarium_fish.jpg)

From their brightly colored, shiny scales to their relatively easy care,
aquarium fish are popular as pets. In fact, millions of households in the
United States keep aquarium fish. Fish are great pets for people with pet
allergies and have shown to produce calming effects and to reduce stress among
people who keep them.

Like all animals, fish may carry germs that make people sick. These germs can
also contaminate the water in which fish live.

Although fish and aquarium water can spread germs to people, illness due to
keeping fish is rare. By giving routine care to your fish and their aquarium
as well as following some simple health tips you are less likely to get sick
from touching, feeding, or owning aquarium fish.

The most common diseases associated with aquarium fish that can cause human
illness are:

External _Aeromonas_ spp.

 _Aeromonas_ is a type of bacteria that is commonly found in fresh water ponds
and aquariums.  This germ can cause disease in fish and amphibians.
_Aeromonas_ can cause discoloration of the limbs of amphibians and fins of
fish. It can also cause internal bleeding in these aquatic animals.

People can become infected through open wounds or by drinking contaminated
water.  Young children and adults with weak immune systems are most commonly
affected and may have diarrhea or blood infections.

Maintaining good water quality in aquariums, promptly removing dead fish, and
practicing healthy habits, including hand washing, will reduce the risk of
_Aeromonas_ infection.

ExternalMore

ExternalCdc-pdf _Mycobacterium marinum_

 _Mycobacterium_ _marinum_ is a type of bacteria that causes disease in fish,
reptiles, and amphibians. This germ is found in fresh water ponds and
aquariums. It is spread to people and animals through contaminated aquarium
water. All fish are susceptible to mycobacteriosis. This disease is typically
slow growing in fish but can affect some fish more quickly. Affected fish may
show no signs of illness or may stop eating, lose their fins or scales,
develop sores, or appear deformed.

People can become infected with _Mycobacterium marinum_ by having direct
contact with infected animals or contaminated water (for example, contaminated
ponds or aquariums). The most common sign of infection is development of a
skin infection.  In very rare cases, the bacteria can spread throughout the
body systems.  Infections progress slowly and may get better on their own. In
some instances, antibiotics and surgical wound treatments are required to
prevent deep infection.

ExternalCdc-pdfMore

_Salmonella_ spp.

 _Salmonella_  is a type of bacteria that spreads to people  and animals
through contaminated food or contact with the stool or habitat of certain
animals, including fish. An animal's aquarium or terrarium may also be a
source of _Salmonella._  Fish carrying _Salmonella_ often do not show any
signs of disease. Aquariums that contain reptiles or amphibians in addition to
fish are at a higher risk for having _Salmonella._

People infected with _Salmonella_ might have diarrhea, vomiting, fever, or
abdominal cramps. Infants, elderly persons, and those with weakened immune
systems are more likely than others to develop severe illness.

More

_Streptococcus iniae_

 _Streptococcus iniae_ is a type of bacteria that causes serious disease in
fish. Fish dying from streptococcal disease often have a disoriented, whirling
motion at the water surface, hence the common name of "mad fish disease." Fish
affected by this disease may have small red areas on their skin, and may
develop a swollen abdomen and bulging eyes.

People, especially those with open skin abrasions or scrapes, could get
infected by _Streptococcus  iniae_ bacteria while handling fish or cleaning
aquariums. Affected people usually develop a skin infection at the site of
open cuts or scrapes. Though rare, more serious illness can happen in people
with weakened immune systems.

More

In this section

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Healthy habits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tips for preventing the spread of diseases from fish and aquariums
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Before choosing a fish
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Choosing aquarium fish
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cleaning and maintaining your aquarium
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Monitor your pet's health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What to do if you no longer want your pet fish
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fish fin scratches

### Healthy habits

#### CDC recommends washing your hands before and after you work with
aquariums or handle fish.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Always Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and running water _before_ and _after_![Child washing hands with soap and water.](/healthypets/images/child_washing_hands.jpg)

handling or cleaning aquariums and feeding fish. Be sure to help children wash
their hands properly. Thoroughly washing your hands will reduce your risk of
getting sick from a disease spread to you by your fish.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * To protect your fish, rinse your hands extremely well to reduce any soap residue after you wash your hands. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adults should supervise hand washing for young children.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Use hand sanitizer if soap and water are not readily available. Be sure to have hand sanitizer readily available near the aquarium to encourage guests and children to practice good hand hygiene after feeding fish or touching the aquarium.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Do not let children younger than 5 years old handle or touch aquariums or aquarium water or feed fish without supervision. Children younger than 5 years old are more likely to get sick from exposure to germs like _Salmonella._

### Tips for preventing the spread of diseases from fish and aquariums

![Mother supervises child feeding fish in an outdoor
pond.](/healthypets/images/child_feeding_fish.jpg)

#### Before choosing a fish

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Find out what types of fish and aquariums are suitable for your family. Certain types of fish require more extensive care and supplies than others.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Learn about the different types of aquariums and their maintenance needs. Work with pet store staff to decide if a fresh or salt water tank is right for you.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Match the size of the tank to the space available in your home and to the amount of time you have to maintain it. Consider purchasing a second aquarium to be used when you're cleaning your first tank, or to house new fish before you place them in your established tank. Having a second tank to temporarily house fish may help reduce their stress and disease.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Once you have decided what type of aquarium you want, learn how to set it up properly. Consider the following: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * tank size![Mother and two children watching a goldfish in a bowl. ](/healthypets/images/mothe_two_children.jpg)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * gravel type
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * plants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * water temperature
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * lighting (UV, etc.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * aquarium filters and pumps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * methods to treat the water (chemically, etc.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * frequency of tank cleaning and maintenance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * equipment and accessories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ask your veterinarian about the proper set-up of your aquarium, the types of fish you should keep, as well as food, care, and environmental requirements of your fish.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Before you bring your fish home, make sure your aquarium is ready. Ask your veterinarian about "cycling a tank" to get the bacteria and nitrogen levels balanced.

#### Choosing aquarium fish

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Learn which fish can go in the aquarium you have. Most fish live exclusively![Siamese fighting fish, commonly called betta fish, fighting in a single aquarium. ](/healthypets/images/betta_fish.jpg)

in either saltwater or freshwater, not both. Consider the number of fish to
keep in your tank; a good standard is 1 inch of fish per gallon of water.
Also, evaluate which species of fish can be in the same tank together and what
types of food they will need.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Some types of fish, like male betta fish, can't be in the same aquarium together because they will fight. However, having multiple female betta fish in the same aquarium is not a problem.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pick fish that are active in their tanks in the pet store. Compare the fish to those of the same type around it. Is it acting like the others or is it off by itself? Is it able to swim normally?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Do not select fish from a tank that has a high number of dead fish.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Healthy fish should have smooth, sleek, shiny scales that are free from discoloration. Their bodies should not have any bumps, and their fins should be intact.![Little boy examines fish in a pet store. ](/healthypets/images/little_boy_examines_fish.jpg)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * When bringing a new fish home, it is very important to acclimate it to your aquarium water. Purchased fish will often be given to you in a clear bag with water from their tank at the store. This water will be a different temperature than your aquarium water at home. To acclimate your fish: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Place the entire bag, still intact, in your aquarium to float at the surface for about 30 minutes to an hour to acclimate the fish to the temperature of the tank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Then, carefully open and gradually pour the bag to release the fish into your tank. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Do not remove the fish from the bag with a small net as this may injure the fish.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Try not to pour too much water from the bag into your aquarium at home because of the possible germs it may contain.![Girl holds a bag containing a goldfish. Photo](/healthypets/images/fish-bag.jpg)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The American Veterinary Medical Association provides additional information about selecting fishExternal.

#### Cleaning and maintaining your aquarium

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Be aware that fish and their aquariums may carry germs. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Wash your hands before and after cleaning or maintaining the aquarium or aquarium water. Plan to wear gloves when working with rough rocks or spiny fish to avoid injury.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * If you have any cuts or wounds on your hands, wear![Pink gloved hands and cleaning brush.](/healthypets/images/pink_gloved.jpg)

gloves or wait until your wounds are fully healed before working with your
fish or aquarium water to avoid possible infection.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Avoid cleaning fish aquariums in areas where people with weak immune systems may be affected.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Don't allow children younger than 5 years of age or people with weak immune systems to clean aquariums.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Don't use kitchen sinks to dump aquarium water into or to wash aquariums. If you use a bathtub to dump aquarium water into or to wash aquariums, clean the tub thoroughly afterwards, and use a commercial disinfectant like bleach according to the manufacturer's instructions. **Do not mix bleach with other cleaners, especially ammonia.**

#### Monitor your pet's health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Monitor your fish daily for signs of illness.![Clownfish swimming near an anemone.](/healthypets/images/clownfish.jpg)

Symptoms may include abnormal swimming; appearance of red, brown, or white
splotches; lack of appetite; or swelling.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * If a fish in your tank ever looks sick, it is best to remove it and place it in a tank by itself. This will help prevent other fish in your main aquarium from getting sick.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Getting a diagnosis from a veterinarian experienced in fish medicineExternal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Promptly remove any dead fish from your aquarium to decrease the risk of spreading disease to your other fish.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Even though fish appear healthy, they may still spread germs to humans. If you become sick shortly after purchasing new fish or cleaning your aquarium, make sure to tell your healthcare provider that you have a pet fish.

#### What to do if you no longer want your pet fish

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Do not release your pet outdoors. Most fish released into ponds or rivers will die, and some grow to become a threat to natural wildlife populations.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Find a new home for your pet: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Contact a nearby pet store for advice or for possible returns.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Consider giving your pet to another fish hobbyist.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Contact a local aquarium, school, or zoo to see if they would accept your pet.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Talk to your veterinarian. He/she may be able to help you find a new home for your pet.

#### Fish fin scratches

Some larger fish have sharp points in their fins that could scratch or damage
your

![Common lionfish with many sharp spines. ](/healthypets/images/lionfish.jpg)

skin when you are cleaning or working in the tank. This is an unusual
occurrence, but germs can spread from fin scratches or scrapes from the gravel
or rocks in the tank, even when the wound does not seem deep or serious.

Some fish are dangerous and even venomous and may not be safe to keep. Just
because you can buy a fish doesn't mean that it's safe or legal to own. Some
fish have venoms they can release to protect themselves, like lionfish and
some types of catfish. Most fish do not have teeth that can cause damage to
skin, but some, like piranhas, have very sharp teeth that can cause serious
harm.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * If you are scratched or bitten by a fish, you should: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Wash your wounds with soap and water immediately.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Seek medical attention: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * If the wound becomes red, painful, warm, or swollen, or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * If the wound is serious (uncontrolled bleeding, loss of function, extreme pain, or there is muscle or bone exposure).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * If you seek medical attention, make sure to tell your healthcare provider you have had contact with fish and aquariums.

## **Publications and materials**

### Brochures

Selecting a FishExternal  
Brochure, American Veterinary Medical Association

### Fish-associated outbreaks

Boylan S. Zoonoses associated with fish. _Veterinary Clinics of North America:
Exotic Animal Practice_. 2011 Sep;14:427-38.

Lahey T. Invasive Mycobacterium marinum infections _._ _Emerging Infectious
Diseases_. 2003; 9(11):1469-8.

### Podcasts

Water frogs, Aquariums, and _Salmonella_ - Oh My!  
CDC Kidtastics Podcast

### Research articles and books

Decostere A, Hermans K, Haesebrouck F. Piscine mycobacteriosis: a literature
review covering the agent and the disease it causes in fish and
humans.External _Veterinary Microbiology._ 2004 Apr 19; 99:159-66.

Gaulin C, Vincent C, Ismail J. Sporadic infections of _Salmonella_ Paratyphi
B, var. Java associated with fish tanks. _Canadian Journal of Public Health._
2005; 96(6):471-4.

Harada K, Amano K, Akimoto S, Yamamoto K, et al. Serological and pathogenic
characterization of _Erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae_ isolates from two human
cases of endocarditis in JapanCdc-pdfExternal. _New Microbiologica_. 2011;
34:409-12. [PDF - 4 pages ]

Lowry T, Smith SA. Aquatic zoonoses associated with food, bait, ornamental,
and tropical fishExternal. _Journal of American Veterinary Medical
Association_ 2007 Sep 15; 231(6):876-80. [ PDF - 5 pages]

Mohanty BR, Sahoo PK. Edwardsiellosis in fish: a brief review _. Journal of
Bioscience_ 2007; 32:1331-44.

Novotny L, Dvorska L, Lorencova A, Beran V, et al.  Fish: a potential source
of bacterial pathogens for human beingsCdc-pdfExternal. _Veterinary Medicine
of Czechoslovakia_. 2004; 49(9):343-358\. [PDF - 16 pages ]

Russo R, Mitchell H, Yanong RPE. Characterization of _Streptococcus iniae_
isolated from ornamental cyprinid fishes and development of challenge
models.Cdc-pdfExternal  _Aquaculture_. 2006; 256:105-10. [ PDF - 6 pages]

Stoskopf MK. Fish medicineCdc-pdfExternal. Philadelphia: WB Saunders Company;
1993. [ PDF - 9 pages ].

Verner-Jeffreys DW, Welch TJ, Schwarz T, Pond MJ, et al. High prevalence of
multidrug-tolerant bacteria and associated antimicrobial resistance genes
isolated from ornamental fish and their carriage water.External _PLoS One_.
2009; 4(12):e8388.

### Additional information

Find veterinarians who focus on or specialize in fish medicineExternal.  
AquaVetMed.info directory

Habitatitude: Protect Our Environment: Do Not Release Fish and Aquatic
PlantsExternal.  
How to turn over unwanted pets, and aquatic animal conservation.

Aquarium TherapyExternal  
Neurobehavioral Research Laboratory and Clinic: Procedures and Facilities.

Stress Reduction, Tropical Fish, and AquariumsExternal  
MentalHelp.net

Page last reviewed: October 1, 2015

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)

home Healthy Pets, Healthy People

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Pets & People
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pets & Other Animalsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Birds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Dogs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Farm Animalsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Backyard Poultry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ferrets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fish
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Horses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reptiles and Amphibiansplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Safe Handling of Pet Reptiles & Amphibians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Rodents Used for Pet Food
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Small Mammalsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ from Small Mammals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pet Rodents 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Wildlife
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diseasesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cat-Scratch Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _E. coli_ Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ringworm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Salmonella_ Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Specific Groups & Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Teachers & Daycare Staff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Veterinarians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Animal Exhibit Visitors & Managers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Organ Transplant Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infants and Young Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * US Outbreaks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Educational Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Multimedia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social Media Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Antibiotic Resistance in Pets and People
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How to Stay Healthy around Pets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stay Healthy Around Small Pets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stay Healthy Around Pet Reptiles and Amphibians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stay Safe and Healthy While Feeding Reptiles and Amphibians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Checking Pets for Ticks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthy Pet Habits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthy Families and Flocks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pet Food Safetyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pet Food Safety _Spanish_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Trouble with Tiny Turtlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Trouble with Tiny Turtles _Spanish_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pet Safety in Emergenciesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pets in Evacuation Centers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pet Safety in Emergencies _Spanish_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pet Disaster Preparedness Kit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pets & Antibiotic Resistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Digital Press Kit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Connect With Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * New & Noteworthy

![Badge for One Health](/healthypets/images/one-health-badge.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

##### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM

