https://www.cdc.gov/globalhealth/fetp/Link: https://www.cdc.gov/globalhealth/fetp/    
                Description: CDC works 24/7 to save lives, reduce disease, and improve health around the world.    
                Keywords: CDC global health,  Global health,  center for global health,  International health,  International Health Regulations,  International,  Overseas,  Global AIDS,  Malaria,  Influenza,  Polio,  Measles,  FETP,  FELTP,  Safe Water,  Emerging infections,  Global disease detection,  WHO,  UNICEF,  Sustainable management development,  Public health capacity,  Health systems strengthening,  Global laboratory,  Refugee health,  Global travel,  Kenya,  Thailand, Guatemala,  China,  Egypt,  India,  South Africa, Global Health &amp; Safety, CDC Organization    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Global Health Protection and Security

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Field Epidemiology Training Program (FETP)

Minus

Related Pages

![Children in Mpape community \(Nigeria\) play in a waste water drainage area.
This drainage was the suspected source of contamination of the well water that
led to the cholera outbreak investigated by Nigeria FELTP residents in April
2014. Two samples collected from home wells around this drainage tested
positive for Vibrio Cholerae. Submitted by Amibola Aman-Oloniyo -
Nigeria.](/globalhealth/healthprotection/fetp/images/nigeria-wastewater-
cholera-04-2014_925x273.jpg)

###

Find out more about how we train

![A team of public health officers, public health engineers, and villagers
carry pipes to reinstall a water piping system after a massive flood in Kuala
Krai District in Kelantan, Malaysia. The flood, which happened on December 24,
2014, destroyed most of the city's water supply system. Clean water was one of
main concerns during and after the flood. Submitted by Rosemawati Ariffin â€“
Malaysia.](/globalhealth/healthprotection/fetp/images/malaysia-water-
pipe-04-2015_925x273.jpg)

###

Learn from our training materials

![FETP residents in Indonesia conduct an outbreak investigation of
leptospirosis affecting farmers in the Boyolali District in Indonesia between
May and June 2014. The farmers in this community work in the field from dawn
until dusk without any footwear, which is a major risk factor for
leptospirosis, a bacterial infection that can lead to kidney damage,
meningitis, liver failure, respiratory distress, and even death. Submitted by
Evi Susanti Sinaga,
Indonesia.](/globalhealth/healthprotection/fetp/images/lepto-
indonesia06-2014_925x273.jpg)

###

See the science behind our work

Our efforts to more rapidly and effectively respond to health threats
currently reach over 60 countries. We train field epidemiologists around the
world, giving them the necessary skills to collect, analyze and interpret data
and contribute to evidence-based decisions.

About FETP

How We Train

Training Modules & Resources

FETP International Nights

In the Spotlight

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Strong and Flexible: Developing a Three-Tiered Curriculum for the Regional Central America Field Epidemiology Training Programexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What's Working: Public Health Progress Since the Haiti 2010 Earthquakeexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Video: Field Training Programs Save Lives

Page last reviewed: February 8, 2018

Content source: Division of Global Health Protection, Global Health, Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention

home Division of Global Health Protection (DGHP)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Updates from the Fieldplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fall 2019, Issue 29
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Spring 2019, Issue 28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fall 2018, Issue 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Stories & Blogs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Usplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Strategic Plan Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * In the News
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Organization
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Data for Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC: Protecting Jobs and Economy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Scientific Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social Media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Training Materials & Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Emergency Response & Recoveryplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About ERRB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Global RRT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ERRB Resources & Tools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Monitoring & Evaluation Tool for Tuberculosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Training & Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Field Epidemiology Training Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About FETP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How We Train
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FETP International Night
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Training Modules & Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tools for FETP Implementation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * NCD Training Modules
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * FETP Monitoring & Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Case Studies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * FETP Case Study: Research Ethics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Additional FETP Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Global Disease Detection Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About GDD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * What We Do
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 10+ Years of CDCâs Global Disease Detection Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Global Disease Detection Operations Centerplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About GDD Operations Center
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Event-based Surveillance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Global Health Securityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Global Health Security
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * International Health Regulations (IHR)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * IHR FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * IHR Infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Global Public Health Informatics 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Improving Public Health Management for Action (IMPACT)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About IMPACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * IMPACT Learning Model
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Where We Work
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Integrated Disease Surveillance & Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National Public Health Institutesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About NPHI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Where We Work
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Staged Development Tool (SDT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Noncommunicable Diseasesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About Global NCDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Generating Evidence
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Improving Surveillance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Strengthening Workforce
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Training Materials

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit



Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Global Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC and the Global Health Security Agenda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Global HIV/AIDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Global Vaccines and Immunization

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM

