https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/topics/flavorings/Link: https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/topics/flavorings/    
                Description: A resource for findings and recommendations to reduce the risk of severe obstructive lung disease (bronchiolitis obliterans) associated with occupational exposures to flavorings.    
                Keywords: lung disease, bronchiolitis obliterans, occupational exposures, flavorings, microwave popcorn    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search __ Search Icon Close Icon

Ã NIOSH

NIOSH All CDC

Submit __

For a full list of topics: All A-Z Topics

The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

![NIOSH logo and tagline](/niosh/images/si-no-left-vp4.png)

# FLAVORINGS-RELATED LUNG DISEASE

Minus

Related Pages

### Background

Diacetyl and its substitute, 2,3-pentanedione, are flavoring compounds that
are used extensively in the food flavoring and production industries.
Occupational exposure to diacetyl has been associated with severe respiratory
impairment and obliterative bronchiolitis, a serious lung disease that is
irreversible. In this disease, the smallest airways in the lung (the
bronchioles) become scarred and constricted, blocking the movement of air. In
addition, 2,3-pentanedione is chemically similar and has had similar effects
in animal models. The first observation of obliterative bronchiolitis in a
food production employee may have occurred in 1985 in a facility where
diacetyl was listed among ingredients used in making flavorings for the baking
industry [NIOSH 1985Cdc-pdf].

In August 2000, a health department requested technical assistance from NIOSH
in an investigation of obliterative bronchiolitis in former workers of a
microwave popcorn plant. The request led to research led by NIOSH. Through
these investigations, it was determined that artificial butter flavorings
added to the popcorn was responsible for causing the disease. The findings
from NIOSH investigations in the microwave popcorn and flavorings
manufacturing industries provided a basis for a 2004 NIOSH Alert: Preventing
Lung Disease in Workers Who Use or Make Flavorings. In addition to the full
Alert in English, a Summary Sheet is available in Spanish. Although much
remains unknown regarding the toxicity of flavoring-related chemicals,
employers and workers can take steps to address working conditions and work
practices that place workers at risk.

In 2012, NIOSH identified obliterative bronchiolitis in a group of workers
that used artificial flavorings to produce and package flavored whole-bean and
ground roasted coffee. It was determined that diacetyl in the artificial
coffee flavorings was responsible for causing these new cases of disease. This
led to a series of investigations at coffee roasting and packaging facilities.
As part of these ongoing investigations, NIOSH is evaluating diacetly,
2,3-pentanedione, and other chemicals that are naturally produced and released
during the coffee roasting process [Duling et al. 2016External; Daglia et al.
2007External]. Grinding roasted coffee beans produces a greater surface area
for off-gassing (sometimes called degassing) of these compounds.

Updates

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * NIOSH developed a criteria document that provides a critical review of the scientific and technical information available on the prevalence of hazards, existence of health risks, and methods to identify and control exposures. The document also provides recommended exposure limits (RELs) for diacetyl and 2,3-pentanedione.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * NIOSH investigators published a paper in the American Journal of Industrial Medicine about a health hazard evaluation at a coffee processing facility that had five former workers with a severe, irreversible lung disease called obliterative bronchiolitis (AJIM 2015; 58(12):1235-1245)External.

![](/niosh/topics/flavorings/images/soybean-oil-sm.jpg)

Flavorings

![](/niosh/topics/flavorings/images/exposure-control.jpg)

Exposure Control

![](/niosh/topics/flavorings/images/coffee-beans.jpg)

Coffee Facilities

![](/niosh/topics/flavorings/images/symptoms.jpg)

Health Information

![](/niosh/topics/flavorings/images/activities.jpg)

NIOSH Activities & Research

![](/niosh/topics/flavorings/images/resource-books.jpg)

Resources

Contact Us

Page last reviewed: October 3, 2017

Content source: National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health

home Workplace Safety & Health Topics

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Flavorings-Related Lung Disease expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Flavorings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Exposure Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Coffee Facilities expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Occupational Exposure Limits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Workplace Interventions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Questions and Answers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * NIOSH Health Hazard Evaluation Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * NIOSH Activities & Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Contact Us

#### Diacetyl and Food Flavorings

Read "Coffee Workers at Risk for Lung Disease" and "Diacetyl and Food
Flavorings" on the NIOSH Science Blog and share your comments.

#### Related Topics

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Protective Clothing and Ensembles

#### Follow NIOSH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * fb Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * pinterest Pinterest
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * twitter Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * youtube YouTube

#### NIOSH Homepage

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * NIOSH A-Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Workplace Safety & Health Topics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publications and Products
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Contact NIOSH

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM

