https://www.cdc.gov/healthypets/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/healthypets/index.html    
                Description: Pets provide many benefits to humans. They comfort us and they give us companionship. However, some animals can also pass diseases to people. These diseases are called zoonoses.    
                Keywords: pets,  zoonoses,  zoonosis,  reptiles,  turtles,  dogs,  cats,  healthy pets,  healthy people,  animals,  animal health, Animal-Related Diseases    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Healthy Pets, Healthy People

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Home

Minus

Related Pages

## **Keeping Pets Healthy Keeps People Healthy Too!**

Studies have shown that the bond between people and their pets can increase
fitness, lower stress, and bring happiness to their owners. But there's
something else you should know.

Pets sometimes carry germs that can make people sick. The diseases people get
from animals are known as zoonotic (zoe-oh-NOT-ic) diseases. Learn more about
the benefits and risks of having pets.

![Coronavirus Outbreak up close](/healthypets/images/slider/outbreak-
coronavirus.jpg)

Animals & Coronavirus Disease 2019

![Cute tibetan terrier in a pet shop](/healthypets/images/slider/pet-
store.jpg)

Pet Preparedness Resources

![Resources for Veterinarians](/healthypets/images/slider/resources-for-
veterinarians.jpg)

Resources for Veterinarians

About Pets & People

![Family of four with dog](/healthypets/images/about-pets-people.jpg)

Pets & Other Animals

![Two bunnies in front of a cage](/healthypets/images/pets-other-animals.jpg)

Animal-Related Diseases

![A cat at a veterinarian clinic](/healthypets/images/animal-related-
diseases.jpg)

Information For You

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Teachers & Daycare Staff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Veterinarians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Parents & Caregivers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Organ Transplant Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Animal Exhibit Managers & Visitors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pregnant Women
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Media

See More Groups

Educational Materials

![ How to Stay Healthy around Pets cover](/healthypets/images/materials/how-
to-stay-healthy-around-pets.jpg)

#### How to Stay Healthy Around Pets

Information and a printable handout on staying healthy around all types of
pets.

See More Materials

Outbreaks

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ![Icon illustration for outbreaks](/healthypets/images/outbreak_icon.jpg)

Outbreak of Multidrug-resistant Campylobacter Infections Linked to Contact
with Pet Store Puppies

See More Outbreaks

New & Noteworthy

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ##### March

Animals & Coronavirus Disease 2019 \- Wednesday, March 18, 2020

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ##### March

New! Social Media Graphics \- Tuesday, March 10, 2020

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ##### February

Patient Stories: Illnesses from Food & Animal Contact \- Wednesday, February
19, 2020

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ##### February

Poster: Antibiotic Resistance in Pets and People \- Monday, February 10, 2020

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ##### December

CDC Investigation Notice - Outbreak of Multidrug-Resistant Campylobacter
Infections Linked to Pet Store Puppies \- Wednesday, December 18, 2019

email_03Get Email Updates

To receive updates on keeping pets and people healthy, enter your email
address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

![Badge for One Health](/healthypets/images/one-health-badge.jpg)

Page last reviewed: March 18, 2020, 12:00 AM

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)

home Healthy Pets, Healthy People

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About Pets & People
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pets & Other Animalsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Birds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Dogs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Farm Animalsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Backyard Poultry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ferrets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fish
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Horses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reptiles and Amphibiansplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Safe Handling of Pet Reptiles & Amphibians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Rodents Used for Pet Food
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Small Mammalsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * _Salmonella_ from Small Mammals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pet Rodents 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Wildlife
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diseasesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cat-Scratch Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _E. coli_ Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Ringworm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Salmonella_ Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Specific Groups & Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Teachers & Daycare Staff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthcare Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Veterinarians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Animal Exhibit Visitors & Managers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Organ Transplant Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infants and Young Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * US Outbreaks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Educational Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Multimedia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social Media Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Antibiotic Resistance in Pets and People
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * How to Stay Healthy around Pets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stay Healthy Around Small Pets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stay Healthy Around Pet Reptiles and Amphibians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Stay Safe and Healthy While Feeding Reptiles and Amphibians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Checking Pets for Ticks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthy Pet Habits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthy Families and Flocks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pet Food Safetyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Pet Food Safety _Spanish_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Trouble with Tiny Turtlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Trouble with Tiny Turtles _Spanish_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pet Safety in Emergenciesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pets in Evacuation Centers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pet Safety in Emergencies _Spanish_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pet Disaster Preparedness Kit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pets & Antibiotic Resistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Digital Press Kit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Connect With Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * New & Noteworthy

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM

