https://www.cdc.gov/HomeandRecreationalSafety/Falls/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/HomeandRecreationalSafety/Falls/index.html    
                Description: None    
                Keywords: injury prevention,  accidents,  injuries,  safety,  safe homes,  prescription drug overdose,  heads up,  concussion,  sports injuries,  older adult falls,  water-related injuries,  drowning,  poisoning,  playground injuries,  bicycle injuries, Injury Safety and Violence    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Home and Recreational Safety

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Older Adult Falls

Minus

Related Pages

Falls are a threat to the health of older adults and can reduce their ability
to remain independent.

However, falls aren't something that just happens when you age, there are
proven ways to reduce falls.

Get the Facts

![Pharmacists can help prevent older adult
falls.](/homeandrecreationalsafety/images/home-flexslider/STEADI-Rx-oaf-
flexslider-medium.png)

###

![MyMobility Plan](/homeandrecreationalsafety/images/falls/CDC-Slider-
FallsHomepage_380x190.png)

###

![](/homeandrecreationalsafety/images/falls/FallsInfoGraphic_475x238.png)

###

![Every 20 minutes an older adult dies from a fall in the United States. Many
more are injured. Take a stand to prevent falls. STEADI
www.cdc.gov/steadi](/homeandrecreationalsafety/images/falls/every-20-minutes-400x275.gif)

###

![Falls are the most common cause of traumatic brain
injury](/homeandrecreationalsafety/images/falls/tbi-falls-475x250.jpg)

###

New Releases

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Implementation of the Stopping Elderly Accidents, Deaths, and Injuries Initiative (STEADI) in Primary Care: An Outcome Evaluationexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Potential to Reduce Falls and Avert Costs by Clinically Managing Fall Riskexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Reducing Fall Risk in Older Adultsexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Estimating the Economic Burden Related to Older Adult Falls by State.external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Medical Costs of Fatal and Nonfatal Falls in Older Adultsexternal icon

Expert Commentary

![Routine questions are part of every medical visit, but are you asking
patients aged 65 years and older about their fall risk? One out of three
people in this age group falls each year, but fewer than half of those who
fall talk to their healthcare provider about it. By asking three simple
questions and taking action—when needed—you can reduce the risk of falling.
Free Medscape login required.](/steadi/images/video_tns/St.Joseph-Video-
Vignette-thumbnail-small.jpg)

**Stand STEADI: Fall Prevention in a Geriatric Emergency Department**

Geriatric Emergency Departments have undergone a new standard for improved
care, thanks to recently-created guidelines and criteria. Learn how St.
Joseph's Health prevents falls among older adults.

View Video

Additional Resources

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * STEADI Coordinated Care Planpdf icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * STEADI Evaluation Guide pdf icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MyMobility Plan 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Are Your Medicines Increasing Your Risk of a Fall or a Car Crash?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Older Adult Falls: CDC Feature Article
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Staying Safe with Falls Prevention Awareness Dayexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Taking Steps to Prevent Falls Podcasts: ![Audio icon](https://www.cdc.gov/injury/images/audio.gif) Listen (0:59) ![Audio icon](https://www.cdc.gov/injury/images/audio.gif) (3:52)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Keeping Seniors Safe Podcasts: ![Audio icon](https://www.cdc.gov/injury/images/audio.gif) Listen (0:59)  ![Audio icon](https://www.cdc.gov/injury/images/audio.gif) (3:50)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Concussion and Traumatic Brain Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Violence Prevention: Elder Abuse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Motor Vehicle Safety: Older Adult Drivers



* * *

![Older Adult Falls: A Growing Burden. STEADI: Stopping Elderly Accidents,
Deaths & Injuries. 2014: 46M total older adults, 7M injuries, 29M falls. 2030:
74M total older adults, 12M injuries, 49M
falls](/homeandrecreationalsafety/images/falls/STEADI_replacementLeaderboard-925w.jpg)

Page last reviewed: October 11, 2016

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Injury Prevention and Control

ï»¿

home Home & Recreational Safety

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Older Adult Fallsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Important Facts about Falls
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Falls Dataplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Deaths from Falls
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Falls by State
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hip Fractures Among Older Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Older Adult Falls Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Compendium of Effective Fall Interventions, 3rd Edition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Preventing Falls: Implementation Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Publications and Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STEADI Initiative for Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Water-Related Injuriesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Get the Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Poisoningplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tips to Prevent Poisonings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Protect the Ones You Love: Poisoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fires

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this topic, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

STEADI for Providers

![STEADI logo](/steadi/images/STEADI_logo_200x75.png)  

Check out the STEADI website. Learn more about free **online training** for
health care providers.

Learn More

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM

