https://www.cdc.gov/copd/resources.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/copd/resources.html    
                Description: COPD resources includes the COPD National Action Plan, Public Health Strategic Framework for COPD Prevention, plus general information and more.    
                Keywords: copd, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, resources, COPD national action plan, general information    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Resources

Minus

Related Pages

![COPD National Action Plan cover](/copd/images/CNAP-Cover.jpg)

## COPD National Action Plan

CDC collaborated with the National Institutes of Health and other federal
agencies to develop the _COPD National Action Plan_ -- a patient-centered road
map for addressing COPD, one of the most urgent health concerns facing
Americans. The plan reflects input from many members of the COPD community,
including patients, caregivers, health care providers, and nonprofit
organizations. COPD National Action PlanExternal

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pulmonary Rehabilitation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Self-Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Patient Support Groups

![Public Health Strategic Framework for COPD Prevention
cover](/copd/images/public-health-strategic-network.jpg)

## Public Health Strategic Framework for COPD Prevention

This report provides a framework that could be used by the public health
community to address COPD as an important public health issue. Public Health
Strategic Framework for COPD Prevention [PDF - 3.95MB](http://wcms-
wp.cdc.gov/copd/pdfs/framework_for_copd_prevention.pdf)

## National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute's COPD Learn More Breathe Better
Program

The National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute's COPD Learn More Breathe
BetterExternal program provides information for people who are at risk for
COPD, those who have been diagnosed with COPD, and health care providers.



## General Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * COPD FoundationExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * American Lung Association - COPD pageExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * American Thoracic Society - COPD fact sheetsExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung DiseaseExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National Institutes of Health - COPD pageExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National Library of Medicine - COPD pageExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * World Health Organization - COPD pageExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC's Tips From Former Smokers Campaign - COPD page



## Pulmonary Rehabilitation

Pulmonary rehabilitation is a personalized treatment program that teaches you
how to manage your COPD symptoms to improve your quality of life. Programs may
include plans that teach you how to breathe better and conserve your energy,
as well as provide advice on food and exercise. More information on pulmonary
rehabilitation is available from the following sites:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The American Thoracic Society - Pulmonary RehabilitationExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute - Pulmonary RehabilitationExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * COPD Foundation - Pulmonary RehabilitationExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * American Thoracic Society - Pulmonary Rehabilitation Cdc-pdf[PDF - 181KB]External
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * American Lung Association - Pulmonary RehabilitationExternal

 Top of Page

## Self-Management

Self-management programs can help you manage your COPD and control your
symptoms. More information on self-management programs is available from the
following sites:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC - Managing COPD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * American Lung Association - COPD Management ToolsExternal



## Patient Support Groups

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * COPD FoundationExternal - COPD360social
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * American Lung Association - Finding SupportExternal

 Top of Page



Page last reviewed: August 22, 2018

Content source: National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health
Promotion, Division of Population Health

home COPD Homepage

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Basics About COPD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Media Products
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publications expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Publications by Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Publications by Data Source
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reviews and Other General Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * For Clinicians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * COPD en EspaÃ±ol

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Air Pollution & Respiratory Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Air Quality, Fires, and Volcanic Eruptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Asthma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mold
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National Center for Environmental Health (NCEH)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Smoking & Tobacco Use

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM

