https://www.cdc.gov/copd/basics-about.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/copd/basics-about.html    
                Description: Basics about COPD: What is COPD? What are the symptoms of COPD? Who has COPD?     
                Keywords: copd,  chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Basics About COPD

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What is COPD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What are the symptoms of COPD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Who has COPD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What causes COPD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What are the complications or effects of COPD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * How is COPD treated?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * References

### What is COPD?

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or COPD, refers to a group of diseases
that cause airflow blockage and breathing-related problems. It includes
emphysema and chronic bronchitis.



### What are the symptoms of COPD?

Symptoms of COPD include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequent coughing or wheezing.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Excess phlegm, mucus, or sputum production.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Shortness of breath.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Trouble taking a deep breath.



### Who has COPD?

![X-ray of lungs](/copd/images/502447411_COPD-lungs-red.jpg)

Chronic lower respiratory disease, primarily COPD, was the third leading cause
of death in the United States in 2014.1 Almost 15.7 million Americans (6.4%)
reported that they have been diagnosed with COPD.2 More than 50% of adults
with low pulmonary function were not aware that they had COPD,3 so the actual
number may be higher. The following groups were more likely to report COPD in
2013.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Women.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * People aged 65 to 74 years and ≥75 years.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * American Indians/Alaska Natives and multiracial non-Hispanics.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * People who were unemployed, retired, or unable to work.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * People with less than a high school education.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * People who were divorced, widowed, or separated.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Current or former smokers.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * People with a history of asthma.

 Top of Page

COPD Among Women

In the past, COPD was often thought of as a man's disease, but things have
changed in the past couple of decades. Since 2000, more women than men have
died from COPD in the United States.4 In 2017, chronic lower respiratory
disease, primarily COPD, was the third leading cause of death among US women.4
The age-adjusted death rates for COPD have dropped among US men, but death
rates have not changed for women.5 More women than men are also living with
COPD in the United States.5

There are several reasons why COPD might affect women differently than men.6
Women tend to be diagnosed later than men, when the disease is more advanced
and treatment is less effective. Women also seem to be more vulnerable to the
effects of tobacco and other harmful substances, such as indoor air pollution.
For example, tobacco smoke is the main cause of COPD in the United States, but
women who smoke tend to get COPD at younger ages and with lower levels of
smoking than men who smoke. There also appear to be differences in how women
and men respond to different treatments.

### What causes COPD?

In the United States, tobacco smoke is a key factor in the development and
progression of COPD.7 Exposure to air pollutants in the home and workplace,
genetic factors, and respiratory infections also play a role. In the
developing world, indoor air quality is thought to play a larger role than it
does in the United States. People should try to avoid inhaling tobacco smoke,
home and workplace air pollutants, and respiratory infections to prevent
developing COPD. Early detection of COPD may change its course and progress.

 Top of Page



### What are the complications or effects of COPD?

Compared to adults without COPD, those with this disease are more likely to:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Have activity limitations like difficulty walking or climbing stairs.2,8,9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Be unable to work.2,8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Need special equipment like portable oxygen tanks.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Not engage in social activities like eating out, going to places of worship, going to group events, or getting together with friends or neighbors.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Have increased confusion or memory loss.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Have more emergency room visits or overnight hospital stays.10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Have other chronic diseases like arthritis, congestive heart failure, diabetes, coronary heart disease, stroke, or asthma.10,11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Have depression or other mental or emotional conditions.10,11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Report a fair or poor health status.12



### How is COPD diagnosed?

![Stethoscope, reading glasses](/copd/images/877183406_COPD-Diagnosis.jpg)

A simple test, called spirometry, can be used to measure pulmonary--or lung--
function and detect COPD in anyone with breathing problems.3,13



### How is COPD treated?

Treatment of COPD requires a careful and thorough evaluation by a
physician.3,13 COPD treatment can alleviate symptoms, decrease the frequency
and severity of exacerbations, and increase exercise tolerance. Treatment
options that your physician may consider include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Quit smoking.** For people who smoke, the most important part of treatment is smoking cessation.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Avoid tobacco smoke and other air pollutants** at home and at work.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Ask your doctor about pulmonary rehabilitation** , which is a personalized treatment program that teaches COPD management strategies to improve quality of life. Programs may include plans that teach people how to breathe better and conserve their energy, as well as provide advice on food and exercise.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Take medication.** Symptoms such as coughing or wheezing can be treated with medication.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Avoid lung infections.** Lung infections can cause serious problems in people with COPD. Certain vaccines, such as flu and pneumococcal vaccines, are especially important for people with COPD. Learn more about vaccination recommendations. Respiratory infections should be treated with antibiotics, if appropriate.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Use supplemental oxygen.** Some people may need to use a portable oxygen tank if their blood oxygen levels are low.

**To learn more about COPD, visit theResources page.**



### References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. National Center for Health Statistics. _Health, United States 2015 with Special Feature on Racial and Ethnic Health Disparities_. Hyattsville, MD: US Dept Health and Human Services; 2016. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. Wheaton AG, Cunningham TJ, Ford ES, Croft JB. Employment and activity limitations among adults with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease -- United States, 2013. _MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep._ 2015:64 (11):290-295.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3. Mannino DM, Gagnon RC, Petty TL, Lydick E. Obstructive lung disease and low lung function in adults in the United States: data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 1988-1994. _Arch Intern Med_. 2000;160:1683-1689.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. National Vital Statistics System detailed mortality data at Wonder Database website. http://wonder.cdc.gov. Accessed July 3, 2019.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5. Ford ES, Croft JB, Mannino DM, Wheaton AG, Zhang X, Giles WH. COPD surveillance--United States, 1999-2011\. _Chest_.2013;144(1):284-305\. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3707177/external icon External. Accessed July 3, 2019.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6. Aryal S, Diaz-Guzman E, Mannino DM. Influence of sex on chronic obstructive pulmonary disease risk and treatment outcomes. _Int J Chron Obstruct Pulmon Dis_. 2014;9:1145-1154\. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4206206/external icon. Accessed July 3, 2019.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Annual smoking-attributable mortality, years of potential life lost, and productivity losses -- United States, 1997-2001.  _MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep_. 2005;54(250):625-628.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8. Greenlund KJ, Liu Y, Deokar AJ, Wheaton AG, Croft JB. Association of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with increased confusion or memory loss and functional limitations among adults in 21 states, 2011 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System. _Prev Chronic Dis._ 2016;13:150428. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.5888/pcd13.150428external icon.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9. Liu Y, Croft JB, Anderson LA, Wheaton AG, Presley-Cantrell LR, Ford ES. The association of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, disability, engagement in social activities, and mortality among US adults aged 70 years or older: 1994-2006. _Int J COPD._ 2014;9:75-83.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10. Wheaton AG, Ford ES, Cunningham TJ, Croft JB. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, hospital visits, and comorbidities--National Survey of Residential Care Facilities, 2010. _J Aging Health._ 2015;27:480-499.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11. Cunningham TJ, Ford ES, Rolle IV, Wheaton AG, Croft JB. Association of self-reported cigarette smoking with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and co-morbid chronic conditions in the United States. _COPD._ 2015;12;276-286.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12. Wheaton AG, Ford ES, Thompson WW, Greenlund KJ, Presley-Cantrell LR, Croft JB. Pulmonary function, chronic respiratory symptoms, and health-related quality of life among adults in the United States--National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 2007-2010. _BMC Public Health._ 2013;13:854.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13. Qaseem A, Wilt TJ, Weinberger SE, et al. Diagnosis and management of stable chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: a clinical practice guideline update from the American College of Physicians, American College of Chest Physicians, American Thoracic Society, and European Respiratory Society. _Annals Intern Med_. 2011;155:179-191.



Page last reviewed: July 19, 2019

Content source: National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health
Promotion, Division of Population Health

home COPD Homepage

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Basics About COPD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data and Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Media Products
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publications expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Publications by Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Publications by Data Source
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Reviews and Other General Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * For Clinicians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * COPD en EspaÃ±ol

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Air Pollution & Respiratory Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Air Quality, Fires, and Volcanic Eruptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Asthma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mold
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National Center for Environmental Health (NCEH)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Smoking & Tobacco Use

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM

