https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/adhd/features/national-prevalence-adhd-and-treatment.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/adhd/features/national-prevalence-adhd-and-treatment.html    
                Description: As of 2016, 6.1 million children aged 2-17 years living in the U.S. hadÂ been diagnosed with ADHD, which is similar to previous estimates.    
                Keywords: Health, Childhood psychiatric disorders, Medicine, Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, Attention, Educational psychology, Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder controversies, behavioral disorder, CDC Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, conduct disorder, ADHD, National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities, United States, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, CDC Organization, Birth Defects    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Attention-Deficit / Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# National Prevalence of ADHD and Treatment: New statistics for children and
adolescents, 2016

Minus

Related Pages

![A group of pre-teen friends with their arms around each
other](/ncbddd/adhd/features/images/group-of-pre-teen-friends.jpg)

In this recent _Centers for Disease Control and Prevention study external
icon,_ NCBDDD scientists found that, as of 2016, 6.1 million children aged
2-17 years living in the U.S. had been diagnosed with attention-
deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), which is similar to previous estimates.
Researchers also found that children living in rural areas were more likely to
have been diagnosed with ADHD and less likely to receive behavioral treatment
in the past year compared with children living in urban or suburban areas.

Among all children 2-17 years of age with ADHD, researchers also found:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 6 out of 10 (62%) were taking medication for their ADHD, and represent 1 out of 20 of all U.S. children;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Just under half (47%) received any behavioral treatment for their ADHD in the past year. Among the youngest children (2-5 years of age), the number increased to over half (60%);
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nearly two-thirds (64%) also had another mental, emotional, or behavioral disorder, such as conduct disorder, anxiety, depression, autism, and Tourette syndrome.

### About the study

Researchers looked at survey data from the National Survey of Children's
Health (NSCHexternal icon) which is sponsored by the Health Resources and
Services Administration's Maternal and Child Health Bureau. The survey asks
parents specific questions about the health and wellbeing of one randomly
selected child in their household. Past versions of the NSCH have been
conducted as a telephone survey, but the NSCH transitioned to an online/mail-
based survey beginning in 2016. As a result of the survey changes, 2016 data
cannot be directly compared with previous NSCH data. The NSCH will now be
conducted annually and this study will serve as the baseline to monitor
diagnosis and treatment patterns of ADHD. Due to the large number of children
and adolescents diagnosed with ADHD, it is important to monitor this condition
and how it is treated.

### For more information:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC's ADHD data and statistics page
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC ADHD resources

### Citation:

Prevalence of Parent-Reported ADHD Diagnosis and Associated Treatment among
U.S. Children and Adolescents, 2016. Melissa L. Danielson, MSPH1; Rebecca H.
Bitsko, PhD1; Reem M. Ghandour, DrPH2; Joseph R. Holbrook, PhD1; Michael D.
Kogan, PhD2; Stephen J. Blumberg, PhD3\. Journal of Clinical Child and
Adolescent Psychology. Published online before print January 24, 2018. [Read
articleexternal icon]

1 National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities, Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA

2 Maternal and Child Health Bureau, Health Resources and Services
Administration, Rockville, MD

3 National Center for Health Statistics, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, Hyattsville, MD

Page last reviewed: August 28, 2019

Content source: National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities

home ADHD Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What is ADHD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms and Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Parent Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * School
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Other Concerns and Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data and Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ADHD Throughout the Years
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosis Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State Informationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State Profiles â Behavioral Health Service Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State Profiles â Diagnosis and Medication Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State Profiles â Medication Treatment and Behavior Therapy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State Profiles â Medication and Psychological Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * PLAY Study
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * PLAY Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Focus for the Future Initiative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Articles and Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Behavior Therapy First for Young Children with ADHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Protecting the Health of Children with ADHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Is It ADHD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Materials and Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * What Parents Can Expect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * What Parents Learn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * ADHD Treatments for Preschoolers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * ADHD Treatments for Children and Teens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Links to Other Resources

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM

