https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/adhd/features/adhd-awareness.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/adhd/features/adhd-awareness.html    
                Description: October is Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) awareness month. Did you know that many children with severe symptoms of ADHD are diagnosed before 6 years of age? Young children with ADHD need the right treatment for ADHD. Learn about using parent behavior therapy first to help young children with ADHD.    
                Keywords: ADHD, preschool, behavior therapy, parents, CDC Features, Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Attention-Deficit / Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Behavior Therapy First for Young Children with ADHD

Minus

Related Pages

![Children painting](/ncbddd/adhd/features/images/adhd-awareness_456px.jpg)

**Did you know that many children with severe symptoms of ADHD are diagnosed
before 6 years of age? Young children with ADHD need the right treatment for
ADHD. Learn about using behavior therapy first to help young children with
ADHD.**

ADHD is one of the most common enduring conditions of childhood and affects
many children, including very young children. Those with more severe symptoms
are often diagnosed earlier. Read about trends in diagnosis and medication
treatment for ADHD.

Being easily distracted, impulsive, and highly active is normal for young
children, but when the symptoms are severe and persistent, it can cause
problems. Young children with ADHD are more likely than those without ADHD to
have difficulties in daycare or school, including problems with peer
relationships, learning, and a higher risk of injuries.

### My Young Child has been Diagnosed with ADHD, Now What?

For older children, the best treatment is often a combination of behavior
therapy and medication. But for children under 6 years of age, experts
recommend that ADHD be treated with behavior therapy first, before trying
medication. Behavior therapy is the recommended treatment for ADHD in children
under 6. The type of behavior therapy that is most effective for this age is
**parent training in behavior management** , meaning that therapists work with
parents and teach them the skills needed to help their child better manage
their ADHD.

### How Can Parent Training in Behavior Management Help my Child?

Children who have ADHD act in ways that are often challenging for parents.
Children may forget things they are told, be overly active, and act before
thinking. They might not be able to get positive attention the way that other
children can; they tend to misbehave and might be punished more frequently
than other children. Even if children with ADHD really try to follow rules,
they might not be able to. This can have a negative impact on their self-
image, and cause them to give up trying or to act up more often.

A therapist skilled in behavior management can help parents understand how
ADHD affects their child. Parent training in behavior management is used to
help change problem behaviors by building parenting skills, improving the
relationship between parents and their child with ADHD, and helping children
manage their own behaviors.

Others (daycare providers, preschool teachers, and other caretakers) can also
help to manage the behavior of preschoolers who have ADHD by becoming educated
about the disorder and by being trained in behavioral techniques.

### The Recommended First Choice

Behavior therapy is the recommended ADHD treatment for children under 6 and
should be used first, before medications that treat ADHD.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Children under 6 are more likely than older children to experience side effects from ADHD medications, such as increased heart rate and blood pressure, trouble sleeping, loss of appetite, and a loss of energy.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The long-term effects of ADHD medications on children under 6 are not known since ADHD medications have not been well-studied in young children.external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Behavior therapy works as well as medication in young children with ADHD in helping to manage symptoms. Studies have shown that families who receive ** ** training in behavior therapy notice improvements for several years after treatment.

Parent training in behavior management has evidence as an effective treatment.
There are several programs that meet the criteria of the Agency for Healthcare
Research and Quality for effective treatments. Read more about these behavior
therapy training programs for parents of young children here.

### What is CDC Doing?

CDC works to help families get the right care, at the right time.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is working with states and partner agencies to increase awareness as well as to identify best practices in support of behavior therapy for ADHD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is using national surveys to understand how many children have ADHD and how they are treated.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is learning more about how children with ADHD are diagnosed.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC funds the National Resource Center on ADHD to provide evidence-based information about ADHD to families and professionals.

### What You Can Do:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Talk to your doctor about behavioral therapy first.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Share information about behavioral therapy for ADHD with other families.

More Information

### More Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC's Information on ADHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National Resource Center on ADHDexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ADHD Awareness Monthexternal icon

Page last reviewed: January 23, 2020

Content source: National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities

home ADHD Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What is ADHD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms and Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Parent Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * School
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Other Concerns and Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data and Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ADHD Throughout the Years
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosis Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State Informationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State Profiles â Behavioral Health Service Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State Profiles â Diagnosis and Medication Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State Profiles â Medication Treatment and Behavior Therapy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State Profiles â Medication and Psychological Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * PLAY Study
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * PLAY Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Focus for the Future Initiative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Articles and Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Behavior Therapy First for Young Children with ADHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Protecting the Health of Children with ADHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Is It ADHD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Materials and Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * What Parents Can Expect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * What Parents Learn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * ADHD Treatments for Preschoolers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * ADHD Treatments for Children and Teens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Links to Other Resources

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this topic, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM

