https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/adhd/facts.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/adhd/facts.html    
                Description: ADHD is one of the most common neurobehavioral disorders of childhood. It is usually first diagnosed in childhood and often lasts into adulthood. Children with ADHD have trouble paying attention, controlling impulsive behaviors (may act without thinking about what the result will be), and in some cases, are overly active.    
                Keywords: CDC,  ADHD medication,  ADHD symptoms,  ADHD in children,  ADHD test,  ADHD in Adults,  ADHD diet,  ADHD symptoms in children,  ADHD treatment,  ADHD symptoms in Adults, Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Attention-Deficit / Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# What is ADHD?

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

**On This Page**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Signs and Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Types
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Causes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Managing Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Get Help
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ADHD in Adults

ADHD is one of the most common _neurodevelopmental_ disorders of childhood. It
is usually first diagnosed in childhood and often lasts into adulthood.
Children with ADHD may have trouble paying attention, controlling impulsive
behaviors (may act without thinking about what the result will be), or be
overly active.

![About 2 million of the more than 6 million children with ADHD were diagnosed
as young children aged 2-5 years.](/ncbddd/adhd/images/adhd-vital-signs-two-
million.jpg)

###  Signs and Symptoms

It is normal for children to have trouble focusing and behaving at one time or
another. However, children with ADHD do not just grow out of these behaviors.
The symptoms continue, can be severe, and can cause difficulty at school, at
home, or with friends.

A child with ADHD might:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * daydream a lot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * forget or lose things a lot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * squirm or fidget
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * talk too much
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * make careless mistakes or take unnecessary risks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * have a hard time resisting temptation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * have trouble taking turns
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * have difficulty getting along with others

Learn more about signs and symptoms

###  Types

There are three different types of ADHD, depending on which types of symptoms
are strongest in the individual:

ADHD Fact Sheet

![ADHD Fact Sheet](/ncbddd/adhd/images/ADHDFactSheetThumb.jpg)

Download and Print this fact sheet pdf icon[PDF - 473 KB]

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Predominantly Inattentive Presentation:** It is hard for the individual to organize or finish a task, to pay attention to details, or to follow instructions or conversations. The person is easily distracted or forgets details of daily routines.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Predominantly Hyperactive-Impulsive Presentation:** The person fidgets and talks a lot. It is hard to sit still for long (e.g., for a meal or while doing homework). Smaller children may run, jump or climb constantly. The individual feels restless and has trouble with impulsivity. Someone who is impulsive may interrupt others a lot, grab things from people, or speak at inappropriate times. It is hard for the person to wait their turn or listen to directions. A person with impulsiveness may have more accidents and injuries than others.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Combined Presentation:** Symptoms of the above two types are equally present in the person.

Because symptoms can change over time, the presentation may change over time
as well.

###  Causes of ADHD

Scientists are studying cause(s) and risk factors in an effort to find better
ways to manage and reduce the chances of a person having ADHD. The cause(s)
and risk factors for ADHD are unknown, but current research shows that
genetics plays an important role. Recent studies of twins link genes with
ADHD.1

In addition to genetics, scientists are studying other possible causes and
risk factors including:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Brain injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Exposure to environmental (e.g., lead) during pregnancy or at a young age
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Alcohol and tobacco use during pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Premature delivery
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Low birth weight

Research does not support the popularly held views that ADHD is caused by
eating too much sugar, watching too much television, parenting, or social and
environmental factors such as poverty or family chaos. Of course, many things,
including these, might make symptoms worse, especially in certain people. But
the evidence is not strong enough to conclude that they are the main causes of
ADHD.

###  Diagnosis

Deciding if a child has ADHD is a process with several steps. There is no
single test to diagnose ADHD, and many other problems, like anxiety,
depression, sleep problems, and certain types of learning disabilities, can
have similar symptoms. One step of the process involves having a medical exam,
including hearing and vision tests, to rule out other problems with symptoms
like ADHD. Diagnosing ADHD usually includes a checklist for rating ADHD
symptoms and taking a history of the child from parents, teachers, and
sometimes, the child.

Learn more about the criteria for diagnosing ADHD

###  Treatments

![physician speaking to family](/ncbddd/adhd/images/adhd-facts2.jpg)

In most cases, ADHD is best treated with a combination of behavior therapy and
medication. For preschool-aged children (4-5 years of age) with ADHD, behavior
therapy, particularly training for parents, is recommended as the first line
of treatment before medication is tried. What works best can depend on the
child and family. Good treatment plans will include close monitoring, follow-
ups, and making changes, if needed, along the way.

Learn more about treatments

###  Managing Symptoms: Staying Healthy

Being healthy is important for all children and can be especially important
for children with ADHD. In addition to behavioral therapy and medication,
having a healthy lifestyle can make it easier for your child to deal with ADHD
symptoms. Here are some healthy behaviors that may help:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Developing healthy eating habits such as eating plenty of fruits, vegetables, and whole grains and choosing lean protein sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Participating in daily physical activity based on age
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Limiting the amount of daily screen time from TVs, computers, phones, and other electronics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Getting the recommended amount of sleep each night based on age

###  Get Help!

If you or your doctor has concerns about ADHD, you can take your child to a
specialist such as a child psychologist or developmental pediatrician, or you
can contact your local early intervention agency (for children under 3) or
public school (for children 3 and older).

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) funds the National
Resource Center on ADHDexternal icon, a program of CHADD - Children and Adults
with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder. Their website has links to
information for people with ADHD and their families. The National Resource
Center operates a call center (1-800-233-4050) with trained staff to answer
questions about ADHD.

For more information on services for children with special needs, visit the
Center for Parent Information and Resources.external icon  To find the Parent
Center near you, you can visit this website.external icon

###  ADHD in Adults

ADHD often lasts into adulthood. For more information about diagnosis and
treatment throughout the lifespan, please visit the websites of the National
Resource Center on ADHDexternal icon and the National Institutes of Mental
Healthexternal icon.

Page last reviewed: August 26, 2019

Content source: National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities

home ADHD Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What is ADHD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms and Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Parent Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * School
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Other Concerns and Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data and Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ADHD Throughout the Years
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosis Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State Informationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State Profiles â Behavioral Health Service Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State Profiles â Diagnosis and Medication Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State Profiles â Medication Treatment and Behavior Therapy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State Profiles â Medication and Psychological Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * PLAY Study
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * PLAY Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Focus for the Future Initiative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Articles and Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Behavior Therapy First for Young Children with ADHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Protecting the Health of Children with ADHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Is It ADHD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Materials and Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * What Parents Can Expect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * What Parents Learn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * ADHD Treatments for Preschoolers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * ADHD Treatments for Children and Teens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Links to Other Resources

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this topic, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM

