https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/adhd/features/protecting-adhd-children.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/adhd/features/protecting-adhd-children.html    
                Description: Parents and healthcare provider can help protect the health of children with ADHD.    
                Keywords: ADHD, children, health, protection, awareness, Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Attention-Deficit / Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Protecting the Health of Children with ADHD

Minus

Related Pages

![Doctor examining young girl with mother
present](/ncbddd/adhd/features/images/doctor-consultation.jpg)

Being healthy is important for all children and can be especially important
for children with ADHD. The core symptoms of ADHD, like impulsivity and
inattention, might lead children to behave in ways that can put their health
at risk or cause them to forget healthy and protective behaviors. Over time,
if not addressed, these risks can lead to injury, disease, or even an earlier-
than-expected death.

Having a healthy lifestyle can help children with ADHD deal with stress and
difficulties in their daily lives. In addition to recommended treatments like
behavioral therapy and medication, a healthy lifestyle can help children with
ADHD manage their ADHD symptoms. **Parents and healthcare providers can learn
more about health risks associated with ADHD and about healthy habits that can
help protect children from long-term health risks**.

### Ways to Protect Children with ADHD From Different Health Risks

##### Preventing Unintentional Injuries

![ADHD Awareness Month](/ncbddd/adhd/features/images/ADHD-awareness-
month2019-small.jpg)

October is ADHD Awareness Month. Learn moreexternal icon.

Impulsivity and inattention can put children at risk for injuries, such as:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Unintentional injuries including falls, drowning, burns, and poisoning. Learn how to keep children safe from injuries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Brain injuries. Learn how to recognize, respond to, and minimize the risk of concussion.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Car crashes, particularly as teenagers and young adults. Learn how to help teens develop safe driving habits.

##### Supporting Mental Health

Children with ADHD are at increased risk for mental, behavioral, and emotional
concerns and disorders, such as:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Behavior disorders, which may increase the risk of interpersonal violence and delinquent behavior. Learn about youth violence prevention.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mood disorders, including anxiety and depression. Learn about children's mental disorders.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Being the victim of bullying. Learn about ways to prevent or stop bullyingexternal icon.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Using tobacco and other high-risk substances. Learn about ways to prevent youth tobacco use and high-risk substance use.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Suicide. Learn about youth suicide preventionexternal icon.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sexual risk behavior. Learn about how parents can help prevent teens from taking sexual risks.

##### Supporting Oral Health

Children with ADHD have increased risk of injury to the mouth and teeth, as
well as cavities (also known as caries or tooth decay). Learn about protecting
children's oral health.

##### Promoting Physical Activity, Nutrition, and Sleep

Children with ADHD are at increased risk for being overweight or having
obesity. Healthy habits for children include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Developing healthy eating habits _,_ such as eating plenty of fruits, vegetables, and whole grains, and choosing lean protein sources.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Participating in daily physical activity based on age.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Limiting the amount of daily screen time  from TVs, computers, phones, and other electronics.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Getting the recommended amount of sleep each night based on age.

### Talk With a Healthcare Provider

Every child with ADHD is different, and experts can't predict whether or how
individual children will be affected by these risks. Talk with your provider
about the best way to protect your child's health.

Additionally, some treatments for ADHD, such as stimulant medication, may have
side effects that could affect your child's health, such as difficulty
sleeping and loss of appetite. Talk with your child's healthcare provider
about these side effects.

### More Information

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) funds the National
Resource Center on ADHDexternal icon, a program of CHADD - Children and Adults
with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder. Their website has links to
information for people with ADHD and their families. The National Resource
Center operates a call center (1-800-233-4050) with trained staff to answer
questions about ADHD.

CDC: Information on ADHD  
CDC: Children's Mental Health  
National Resource Center on ADHDexternal icon

### References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. Sun S, Kuja-Halkola R, Faraone SV, et al. Association of psychiatric comorbidity with the risk of premature death among children and adults with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder _JAMA psychiatry (Chicago, Ill)._ 2019.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. Barkley RA. Health problems and related impairments in children and adults with ADHD. In Barkley RA. _Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder: A handbook for diagnosis and treatment_ (4th Ed). New York, NY: Guilford Press; 2015. pp. 267-313.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3. Barkley RA, Fisher M. Hyperactive child syndrome and estimated life expectancy at young adult follow-up: The role of ADHD persistence and other potential predictors. _Journal of Attention Disorders_ , 2019;23(9):907-923.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4. Nigg JT. Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder and adverse health outcomes. _Clinical Psychology Review,_ 2013;33:215-228.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5. Danielson ML, Bitsko RH, Ghandour RM, Holbrook JR, Kogan, M., Blumberg SJ. Prevalence of parent-reported ADHD diagnosis and associated treatment among U.S. children and adolescents, 2016. _Journal of Child and Adolescent Psychology,_ 2018;47(2):199-212.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6. Kim J, Mutyala B, Agiovlasitis S, Fernhall B. Health behaviors and obesity among US children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder by gender and medication use. _Preventive Medicine,_ 2011;52(3-4):218-22.

Page last reviewed: October 8, 2019

Content source: National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental
Disabilities

home ADHD Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What is ADHD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms and Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Parent Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * School
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Other Concerns and Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data and Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ADHD Throughout the Years
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diagnosis Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State Informationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State Profiles â Behavioral Health Service Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State Profiles â Diagnosis and Medication Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State Profiles â Medication Treatment and Behavior Therapy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * State Profiles â Medication and Psychological Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * PLAY Study
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * PLAY Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Focus for the Future Initiative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Articles and Key Findingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Behavior Therapy First for Young Children with ADHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Protecting the Health of Children with ADHD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Is It ADHD?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Materials and Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * What Parents Can Expect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * What Parents Learn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * ADHD Treatments for Preschoolers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * ADHD Treatments for Children and Teens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Links to Other Resources

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this topic, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM

