

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

CDC Features

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# Avoid Dengue by Preventing Mosquito Bites

Minus

Related Pages

![Mosquito](/features/avoid-dengue/avoid-dengue_456px.jpg)

**Use insect repellent, wear long-sleeved shirts and long pants, and control
mosquitoes inside and outside your home.**

Each year, an estimated 400 million people are infected with dengue virus.
About 100 million get sick. Outbreaks have occurred in Southeast Asia, the
Western Pacific, the Eastern Mediterranean, the Americas, the Caribbean, and
Africa.

### Signs and Symptoms of Dengue

Most people infected have mild or no symptoms. About 1 in 4 people infected
with dengue will get sick. Mild symptoms of dengue may be confused with other
illnesses that cause fever and flu-like illness. Most people will recover
after about one week.

The most common symptoms are **fever** and **one or more of the following:**

                    * Headache
                    * Eye pain (typically behind the eyes)
                    * Muscle, joint, or bone pain
                    * Rash
                    * Nausea and vomiting
                    * Unusual bleeding (nose or gum bleed, small red spots under the skin, or unusual bruising)

**Severe dengue is an emergency. Recognize the warning signs.**

                    * **Warning signs:** Watch for signs and symptoms of severe dengue to develop 24-48 hours after fever goes away.
                    * **If you or a family member develops any of these warning signs, go to a local clinic or emergency room immediately:**
                      * Stomach or belly pain, tenderness
                      * Vomiting (at least 3 times in 24 hours)
                      * Bleeding from the nose or gums
                      * Vomiting blood, or blood in the stool
                      * Feeling tired, restless, or irritable

![World map of known and possible risks of dengue](/features/avoid-
dengue/avoid-dengue_670px.gif)

Global risk of dengue.

### If you think you may have dengue

                    * See your healthcare provider.
                    * Your healthcare provider may order tests to look for dengue or similar viruses, like chikungunya or Zika.

### If you are sick with dengue

                    * **Take acetaminophen or paracetamol** to control fever and relieve pain. Do not take aspirin or ibuprofen.
                    * Get plenty of rest and drink fluids to prevent dehydration.
                    * Rest in a screened or air-conditioned room or under a bed net while you have a fever.

### Prevent Dengue: here's how

                    * No vaccine is available in the United States.
                    * No medicine is available to treat dengue.
                    * Avoid infection by preventing mosquito bites. Mosquitoes that spread dengue virus bite during the day and night.

![a human hand pointing to the instructions on a can of insect
repellent](/zika/images/prevention/use-insect-repellent.png)

### Use Insect Repellent

Use Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)-registered insect repellentsexternal
icon with one of the active ingredients below. When used as directed, EPA-
registered insect repellents are proven safe and effective, even for pregnant
and breastfeeding women.

![EPA-registered active ingredients](/features/avoid-dengue/avoid-
dengue_700px.png)

_*See EPA 's search tool here.external icon_

#### Tips for Everyone

                    * Always follow the product label instructions.
                    * Reapply insect repellent as directed. 
                      * Do not spray repellent on the skin under clothing.
                      * If you are also using sunscreen, apply sunscreen first and insect repellent second.

#### Tips for Babies & Children

![an adult male applying insect repellent to a child's
face](/zika/images/prevention/parent-child-insect-repellent.png)

                    * Dress your child in clothing that covers arms and legs.
                    * Cover strollers and baby carriers with mosquito netting.
                    * When using insect repellent on your child: 
                      * Always follow label instructions.
                      * Do not use products containing oil of lemon eucalyptus (OLE) or para-menthane-diol (PMD) on children under 3 years old.
                      * Do not apply insect repellent to a child's hands, eyes, mouth, cuts, or irritated skin. 
                        * Adults: Spray insect repellent onto your hands and then apply to a child's face.

#### Natural insect repellents (repellents not registered with EPA)

                    * We do not know the effectiveness of non-EPA registered insect repellents, including some natural repellents.
                    * To protect yourself against diseases spread by mosquitoes, CDC and EPA recommend using an EPA-registered insect repellent.
                    * Choosing an EPA-registered repellent ensures the EPA has evaluated the product for effectiveness.
                    * Visit the EPA website to learn more.external icon

![a babies crib covered by a mosquito net](/zika/images/prevention/crib-bed-
net.png)

### Protect your baby or child

                    * Dress your child in clothing that covers arms and legs.
                    * Cover crib, stroller, and baby carrier with mosquito netting.

![a bottle of insect repellent shown spraying
clothing](/zika/images/prevention/treat-clothing.png)

### Wear long-sleeved shirts and long pants

                    * Treat items, such as boots, pants, socks, and tents, with permethrin or buy permethrin-treated clothing and gear. 
                      * Permethrin-treated clothing will protect you after multiple washings. See product information to find out how long the protection will last.
                      * If treating items yourself, follow the product instructions.
                      * Do not use permethrin products directly on skin.

![a mosquito protected house](/zika/images/prevention/mosquito-proof-
house.png)

### Take steps to control mosquitoes inside and outside your home

                    * Use screens on windows and doors. Repair holes in screens to keep mosquitoes outside.
                    * Use air conditioning when available. 
                      * Sleep under a mosquito bed net if air conditioned or screened rooms are not available or if sleeping outdoors.
                    * Once a week, empty and scrub, turn over, cover, or throw out items that hold water, such as tires, buckets, planters, toys, pools, birdbaths, flowerpots, or trash containers. Check inside and outside your home. Mosquitoes lay eggs near water.

Learn how to control mosquitos inside and outside your home >>

### Planning a trip? Do your homework before traveling

Make a check list of everything you'll need for an enjoyable vacation and use
the following resources to help you prepare.

                    * Pack a travel health kit. Remember insect repellent and use it to prevent mosquito bites.
                    * Learn about destination-specific health risks and recommendations by visiting CDC Travelers' Health website.
                    * See a healthcare provider familiar with travel medicine, ideally 4 to 6 weeks before your trip. Go to the Find a Clinic webpage for help in finding a travel medicine clinic near you.

![Man sweating and checking thermometer](/features/avoid-dengue/avoid-
dengue_a250px.jpg)

Visit your healthcare provider right away if you develop a fever, headache,
rash, muscle or joint pain.

### After your trip

Visit your healthcare provider right away if you develop a fever, headache,
rash, muscle or joint pain.

                    * Tell your healthcare provider about recent travel.
                    * Visit the Getting Sick after Travel webpage for more information.
                    * Learn more about dengue
                    * Learn more about protecting yourself from mosquito bites pdf icon[481 KB]

More Information

                    * Dengue virus: What you need to know pdf icon[1.29 MB]
                    * Mosquito Bite Prevention pdf icon[968 KB]
                    * CDC Dengue website
                    * CDC Travelers' Health
                      * Travel notices
                      * Dengue disease page
                    * Additional resources

Page last reviewed: March 16, 2020

Content source:

National Center for Emerging, Zoonotic, and Infectious Diseases, Division of
Vector-Borne Diseases

home CDC Features

                    * Data & Statistics
                    * Diseases & Conditions
                    * Emergency Preparedness & Response
                    * Environmental Health
                    * Healthy Living
                    * Injury, Violence & Safety
                    * Life Stages & Populations
                    * Travelersâ Health
                    * Workplace Safety & Health

Features Media

Social_round_rss RSS Sign up for Features

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

![Step It Up! Surgeon General's Call to Action to Promote Walking and Walkable
Communities](/physicalactivity/images/cta/CDC-web-button-v5.jpg)
![24/7](/features/images/24-7_i150x120html.gif)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM

