https://www.cdc.gov/od/foiaLink: https://www.cdc.gov/od/foia    
                Description: CDC has one overriding goal: to protect the health of all Americans. At the core of this mission is information sharing â not just health information and disease study results, but information CDC gathers as part of a continuous process of putting information into action. As a science-based agency funded by U.S. taxpayers, CDC is committed to openness and accountability.    
                Keywords: CDC,  ATSDR,  FOIA,  freedom,  information,  act,  records,  significant,  freedom of information act, Policies &amp; Guidelines    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email
                    * Syndicate

# Freedom of Information Act Importance to CDC Mission

Minus

Related Pages

alert icon

During the COVID-19 response, the CDC FOIA Office will be teleworking full
time and will not be able to receive FOIA requests/correspondence by mail or
FedEx. If possible, requesters should provide an email address for a final
response. Here are five (5) ways to submit a FOIA request:

                    1. Submit a FOIA request via an online request form
                    2. Email a FOIA request: FOIARequests@cdc.gov
                    3. Fax a FOIA request: 404-235-1852
                    4. Submit a request via PAL: FOIA Public Access Link (PAL)
                    5. Submit a request via FOIA.govexternal icon

To learn more about Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) visit CDC's COVID-19
website.

![FOIA Banner](/od/foia/resources/images/foia-main-page-banner.png)

### Welcome to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Freedom of
Information Act (FOIA) site.

CDC is the nation's leading public health agency, dedicated to saving lives
and protecting the health of Americans. CDC ensures its science and research
activities and its employees comply with federal laws, regulations, and
policies in order to exercise the highest level of scientific integrity. At
the core of this mission is information sharing--not just health information
and disease study results, but information CDC gathers as part of a continuous
process of putting information into action. As a science-based agency funded
by U.S. taxpayers, CDC is committed to openness and accountability.

Like all federal agencies, CDC is required to disclose records requested in
writing by any person unless the records (or a part of the records) are
protected from disclosure by any of the nine exemptions contained in the law.
This site provides information about the CDC FOIA Office program and how to
access CDC records.

stack icon

FOIA Public Access Link (PAL)

question icon

Frequently Asked Questions

book icon

PAL Reading Room

chart icon

CDC FOIA Statistics

FOIA Requester Service Centers

                    * AoA - Administration on Aging external icon
                    * ACF - Administration for Children and Familiesexternal icon
                    * AHRQ - Agency for Healthcare Research and Qualityexternal icon
                    * CDC - Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
                    * CMS - Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services external icon
                    * FDA - Food and Drug Administrationexternal icon
                    * HRSA - Health Resources and Services Administrationexternal icon
                    * IHS - Indian Health Serviceexternal icon
                    * NIH - National Institutes of Health external icon
                    * OIG - Office of Inspector General external icon
                    * PSC - Program Support Center external icon
                    * PHS - Public Health Service external icon
                    * SAMHSA - Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration external icon

 Top of Page

Page last reviewed: March 20, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Freedom of
Information Act (FOIA)

home FOIA

                    * FOIA Request Status
                    * Submit a FOIA Request
                    * Frequently Asked Questions
                    * Sample Consent Forms
                    * Regulations
                    * PAL Reading Room
                    * Resources expand
                      * FOIA 101
                      * Digital Media expand
                        * FOIA at CDC
                      * Reference Material
                      * What Happens To My FOIA Request?
                      * E-Z Guide to FOIA Exemptions
                    * Contact FOIA

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                    * About CDC
                    * Jobs
                    * Funding
                    * Policies
                    * File Viewers & Players

                    * Privacy
                    * FOIA
                    * No Fear Act
                    * OIG
                    * Nondiscrimination
                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * Youtube
                    * Instagram
  

                    * Syndicate
                    * CDC TV
                    * RSS
                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                    * Facebook
                    * Twitter
                    * LinkedIn
                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

