https://www.cdc.gov/statesystem/Link: https://www.cdc.gov/statesystem/    
                Description: An interactive application that presents current and historical state-level data on tobacco use prevention and control.    
                Keywords: OSH,  STATE System,  STATE,  Smoking,  Tobacco, Chronic Disease Prevention, Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

State Tobacco Activities Tracking and Evaluation (STATE) System

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# State Tobacco Activities Tracking and Evaluation (STATE) System

Minus

Related Pages

![STATE System](/statesystem/images/STATE-System-Logo_Final.jpg)

The STATE System is an interactive application that presents current and
historical state-level data on tobacco use prevention and control.

![Custom Reports Carousel](/statesystem/3.0/carousel/Custom-Reports.jpg)

![StateHighlightsCarousel](/statesystem/3.0/carousel/State-Highlights.jpg)

![Interactive Maps Carousel](/statesystem/3.0/carousel/Interactive-Maps.jpg)

![TUDP Carousel](/statesystem/3.0/carousel/Tobacco-Use-Data-Portal.jpg)

![Latest Updates](/statesystem/3.0/carousel/Latest-Updates.jpg)

![Fact Sheet](/statesystem/3.0/carousel/Fact-Sheets.jpg)

![Slide Decks](/statesystem/3.0/carousel/Slide-Decks.jpg)

Latest Updates

####  **March 2020**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * In alignment with CDC's Digital First approach to make digital content more usable, effective, and accessible on multiple devices, the STATE System fact sheets have migrated to a web-based format, complete with interactive maps. You can access these fact sheets here.



More

State Highlights

![State
Highlights](https://www.cdc.gov/statesystem/images/statehighlights300x292.jpg)

Use the State Highlights report to see a variety of data from across the
system for a single selected state. View highlights in the System or export to
PDF.

Custom Reports

![Custom
Reports](https://www.cdc.gov/statesystem/images/customreports300x292.jpg)

Use Custom Reports to build your own report by selecting the topics, states,
and years of data.

Interactive Maps

![Interactive Maps](https://www.cdc.gov/statesystem/images/interactive-
maps-300x292.jpg)

Use Interactive Maps to access key data from across the System in a US map and
data table.

Fact Sheets

![Fact Sheet Icon](/statesystem/3.0/FactSheet-LargeIcon.jpg)

Use the latest version of the Fact Sheets to access related Interactive Maps
or view the associated dataset in the Tobacco Use Data Portal.

View Available Topics in the STATE System

Cessation Coverage

Funding

Health Consequences and Costs

Legislation

Policy

Quitline

Smokefree Rules/Policies - Survey Data

Tobacco Use - Survey Data

More

question icon

About STATE System

The STATE System is an interactive application that presents current and
historical state-level data on tobacco use prevention and control. Learn what
the STATE System has to offer.

book icon

Glossary and Methodology

Link to the website of the data source or download the glossary and
methodology files.

pin icon

FAQs

Use Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) to help you navigate the STATE System.

edit icon

Contact Us

Contact STATE System support with questions or comments.

Fact Sheets

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * E-Cigarette
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Excise Tax
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Gaming Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Licensure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Medicaid Coverage of Tobacco Cessation Treatments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Multi-unit Housing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preemption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Smokefree Indoor Air
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tax Stamp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vehicles

Publications

State Medicaid Coverage for Tobacco Cessation Treatments and Barriers to
Accessing Treatments -- United States, 2015-2017

State Laws Regarding Indoor Public Use, Retail Sales, and Prices of Electronic
Cigarettes -- U.S. States, Guam, Puerto Rico, and U.S. Virgin Islands, 2017

State and Local Comprehensive Smoke-Free Laws for Worksites, Restaurants, and
Bars -- United States, 2015



Slide Decks

![Current Cigarette Use Among Adults Interactive
Map](/statesystem/images/slide-decks/BRFSS2015.PNG)



Cigarette Use Among Adults

![Current Cigarette Use Among Youth Interactive
Map](/statesystem/images/slide-decks/YRBSS2015.PNG)



Cigarette Use Among Youth

![Interactive Maps Smokefree Indoor Air](/statesystem/interactive-
maps/mapspageimages/SmokefreeIndoorAir2017Q4.PNG)



Comprehensive Smokefree Indoor Air

![Interactive Map - Excise Tax](/statesystem/interactive-
maps/mapspageimages/ExciseTax2017Q4.PNG)



Excise Taxes on Cigarettes

More

Quick Start Guides

![STATE System Quick Start Guide](/statesystem/images/fs-thumbnails/STATE-
SystemHome2017.PNG)

STATE System

![Custom Reports Quick Start Guide](/statesystem/images/CustomReports2017.PNG)

Custom Reports

![State Highlights Quick Start
Guide](/statesystem/images/STATEHighlights2017.PNG)

State Highlights

![Interactive Maps Quick Start Guide](/statesystem/images/FS-Interactive-
Maps62x81.png)

Interactive Maps

More

Tobacco Use Data Portal

![Tobacco Use Data
Portal](https://www.cdc.gov/statesystem/images/oshdata300x292.jpg)

Leave the STATE System and use the Tobacco Use Data Portal to access expanded
datasets.  View maps, filters and graphs in the portal and export, link and
embed data.

Features from the Tobacco Use Data Portal

Graph of Excise Taxes on Cigarettes

Going Smokefree Matters - Bars and Restaurants Infographic

Graph of Cigarette Use Among Adults

Smoking & Tobacco Use

CDC's Office on Smoking and Health offers information related to smoking and
tobacco use.

Suggested Citation

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. State Tobacco Activities Tracking
and Evaluation (STATE) System. Available at: https://www.cdc.gov/statesystem

Page last reviewed: March 18, 2020

Content source: Office on Smoking and Health, National Center for Chronic
Disease Prevention and Health Promotion

home STATE System

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About STATE System
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Report Guideplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cessation Coverage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Consequences and Costs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Legislationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * E-Cigarette
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Quitline
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Smokefree Rules/Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Tobacco Use â Survey Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Custom Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * State Highlights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Interactive Mapsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Map of Current Cigarette Use Among Adults
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Map of Current Cigarette Use Among Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Map of Funding â Appropriations/Grants Total Per Capita
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Map of Funding â Expenditures as a Percentage of CDC Recommended Level
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Map of Quitline â Service Utilization â Callers Who Received Counseling and/or Medications per 1,000 Tobacco Users
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Map of Quitline â Service Utilization â Incoming Calls per 10,000 State Population
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STATE System E-Cigarette Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STATE System Excise Tax Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STATE System Gaming Facilities Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STATE System Licensure Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STATE System Medicaid Coverage of Tobacco Cessation Treatments Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STATE System Multi-unit Housing Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STATE System Preemption Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STATE System Smokefree Indoor Air Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STATE System Tax Stamp Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STATE System Vehicles Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tobacco Use Data Portal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Quick Start Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Slide Decks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Glossary and Methodology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Latest Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FAQsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQs for Custom Reportsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * How do I build a report with the topics, states, and years of data available?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * How do I export the data?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * How do I interact with the table?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQs for Highlights Reportplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * How do I toggle between types of visualizations?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Can I export, save, or print the panels featured in the State Highlights report?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQs for Interactive Mapsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * How do I save the map and legend to use in a presentation or report?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * How do I sort the data in the data table?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * How do I interact with the legend?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQs for Tobacco Use Data Portalplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * How do I access the Tobacco Use Data Portal?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * What is the data catalog? How can I use it?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * How do I find a view within a dataset?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Why create a filter?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * How can I create a map from a filtered view?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * How can I create a chart from a filtered view?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * What happens if I click on the âView in Google Mapsâ link?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Why should I use the About button?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * How do I embed a visualization that I just created?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * How do I maximize my workspace?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * How do I hide, sort, or filter a column in a dataset?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Contact Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Return to Smoking and Tobacco Use

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format

