https://www.cdc.gov/cdc-info/diseases-conditions.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/cdc-info/diseases-conditions.html    
                Description: CDC-INFO is the CDCâs national contact center, providing information to the public, healthcare providers, and public health professionals. CDC-INFO offers live agents to help you find the up-to-date, reliable, consistent, and science-based health information youâre looking for, on more than 750 health topics.    
                Keywords: CDC-INFO,  National Contact Center,  Healthy Living,  Vaccines &amp; Immunizations,  Diseases and Conditions,  Travelerâs Health,  Injury,  Violence and Safety,  About CDC, Health Communications    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

CDC-INFO

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Ask CDC - Diseases & Conditions

Minus

Related Pages

What is pelvic inflammatory disease (PID)?

Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) refers to infection of the:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Uterus (womb),
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fallopian tubes (the tubes that carry eggs from the ovaries to the uterus), and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Other female reproductive organs.

PID is a serious complication (health problem) of some sexually transmitted
diseases (STDs), especially:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Chlamydia, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Gonorrhea.

PID can permanently damage a woman's reproductive organs. Untreated PID can
lead to serious problems, such as:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Infertility (not being able to get pregnant),
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ectopic pregnancy (pregnancy outside the womb),
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Abscess (a pocket of pus) formation, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Chronic (long-lasting) pelvic pain.

If you think you might have PID, see your doctor right away.

#### CDC Resources

Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)

2015 Sexually Transmitted Diseases Treatment Guidelines

Sexually Transmitted Diseases

#### CDC Publications

Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID) - CDC Fact Sheet pdf icon[PDF - 307 KB]

Sexually Transmitted Diseases Treatment Guidelines, 2015 pdf icon[PDF - 7 MB]

Top of Page

What are the signs and symptoms of chlamydia?

Most people who are infected with chlamydia don't have any symptoms. However,
even if people with chlamydia don't have symptoms at first, chlamydia
infections can cause problems weeks to years later.

For women, symptoms might include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * an abnormal vaginal discharge,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * a burning feeling when urinating,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * lower abdominal (stomach) or back pain,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * nausea,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * pain during sex,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * fever, or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * bleeding between menstrual periods.

For men, symptoms might include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * discharge from the penis,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * a burning feeling when urinating,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * burning or itching around the opening of the penis, or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * rarely, pain and swelling in the testicles.

The only sure way to keep from getting sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) is
to not have sex. If you're having sex, you can lower your risk of getting STDs
by having sex with only one partner, who:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * has been tested,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * doesn't have an STD, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * is only having sex with you.

Also, latex condoms, when used the right way every time you have sex, are
highly effective in preventing the spread of most STDs.

#### Sources

Chlamydia - CDC Fact Sheet

Chlamydia - CDC Fact Sheet PDF  
National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention,
Division of STD Prevention pdf icon[PDF - 500 KB]

Chlamydia  
National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention,
Division of STD Prevention

Top of Page

What is gestational diabetes?

![Picture of pregnant woman having sugar level tested by healthcare
professional](/cdc-info/images/PR3849000-small.jpg)

Gestational diabetes is a form of diabetes that occurs during pregnancy. This
happens when the mother's body cannot make enough of the hormone insulin
during pregnancy. Insulin is a hormone made by your pancreas that acts like a
key to let blood sugar into the cells of your body for energy.

Women diagnosed with gestational diabetes require a treatment plan to help
control blood sugar levels. Without treatment, gestational diabetes could lead
to health problems for the mother and baby.

Having gestational diabetes can increase your risk of high blood pressure
during pregnancy. It can also increase your risk of having a large baby that
needs to be delivered by cesarean section (C-section).

If the mother's blood sugar is not properly managed, the baby could be:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Born with hypoglycemia (low blood sugar).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Born with breathing problems.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * More likely to become overweight during childhood and adolescence.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * More likely to have type 2 diabetes later in life.

Mothers with gestational diabetes can do a lot to help manage the condition:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Go to all prenatal appointments.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Check blood sugar often.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Eat healthy food in the right amounts at the right times.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Be active. Walking is a great way to stay active during pregnancy.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Talk to your doctor about how much weight you should gain for a healthy pregnancy.

Women who have had gestational diabetes have about a 50 percent chance of
developing type 2 diabetes. You can lower your risk by reaching a healthy body
weight after delivery. Visit your doctor to have your blood sugar tested 6 to
12 weeks after your baby is born and then every 1 to 3 years to make sure your
levels are on target.

#### CDC Resources

Diabetes: Who's at Risk?

Diabetes Fact Sheets

Diabetes Report Card 2017

#### External Resources

Gestational Diabetesexternal icon  
National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

Gestational Diabetes Mellitusexternal icon  
American Diabetes Association

#### CDC Publications

Diabetes At-A-Glance, 2016 pdf icon[PDF - 224 KB]

National Diabetes Statistics Report, 2017 pdf icon[PDF - 1.35 MB]

What can I do to prevent type 2 diabetes?

Your risk for type 2 diabetes increases if you have certain lifestyle factors,
like being active less than 3 times a week and being overweight. The good news
is type 2 diabetes can be prevented or delayed with simple, lifestyle changes
like increasing physical activity, eating healthier, and losing a small amount
of weight if you're overweight. A small amount of weight means 5 to 7% of your
total body weight--that's just 10 to 14 pounds for a 200-pound person.

A lifestyle change program offered through the CDC-led National Diabetes
Prevention Program can help you make those changes--and make them stick.
Through the program, you can lower your risk of developing type 2 diabetes by
as much as 58% (71% if you're over age 60).

Highlights include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Working with a trained coach to make realistic, lasting lifestyle changes.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Discovering how to eat healthy and add more physical activity into your day.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Finding out how to manage stress, stay motivated, and solve problems that can slow your progress.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Getting support from people with similar goals and challenges.

Ask your doctor or nurse if there's a CDC-recognized National Diabetes
Prevention Program offered in your community, or you can find a class location
on our website. The best time to prevent type 2 diabetes is now.

#### CDC Publications

Prediabetes

National Diabetes Prevention Program

National Diabetes Education Program

#### CDC Resources

Diabetes At-A-Glance pdf icon[PDF - 224 KB]

#### External Resources

Preventing Type 2 Diabetesexternal icon  
U.S. National Institutes of Health, National Institute of Diabetic and
Digestive and Kidney Diseases

Your Game Plan to Prevent Type 2 Diabetesexternal icon  
U.S. National Institutes of Health, National Institute of Diabetic and
Digestive and Kidney Diseases

Top of Page

I have symptoms and want to know if I have a disease. What do my symptoms
mean?

![Image of two healthcare professionals and patient, sitting at a table, with
clipboards](/cdc-info/images/PR3403000-small.jpg)

CDC-INFO does not give personal medical advice. If you are concerned you have
a disease or condition, talk to your doctor. If you don't have a doctor, we
can help you find a clinic or other healthcare provider in your areaexternal
icon.

If you have questions about a specific disease or medical condition, we can
give you general information. You can also visit the CDC website for a list of
topics covered, or call 1-800-CDC-INFO to be connected to an agent (during
normal business hours).

#### External Resources

Find a Health Centerexternal icon

Top of Page

How is the hepatitis C virus spread?

The hepatitis C virus is most often spread when blood from a person who has
hepatitis C enters the body of a person who is not infected. Many people got
infected many years ago before widespread screening of the blood supply for
the virus was possible. Today, most people who get infected become infected by
sharing needles or other equipment to inject drugs.

People can also get infected with hepatitis C if they:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Have had a blood transfusion or organ transplant prior to 1992, or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Get a needle stick injury from an infected person.

Although rare, hepatitis C can also be spread by having sex with an infected
person, or an infected pregnant woman can sometimes give it to her baby at
birth.

If you are worried you may have hepatitis C, talk to your healthcare provider.
Your doctor can help you find out if you have the virus. If you do not have a
healthcare provider, call your state or local health departmentexternal icon.

#### CDC Publications

Hepatitis C: General Information, June 2010 pdf icon[PDF - 563 KB]

The ABCs of Hepatitis, June 2010 pdf icon[PDF - 609 KB]

#### CDC Resources

Hepatitis C FAQs for the Public

#### External Resources

Hepatitis C FAQsexternal icon  
United States National Institutes of Health, National Institute of Diabetes
and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Digestive Diseases Information
Clearinghouse

American Liver Foundationexternal icon

American Association for the Study of Liver Diseasesexternal icon

Top of Page

What is human papillomavirus (HPV)?

Human papillomavirus (HPV) is the most common sexually transmitted infection
(STI) in the U.S. Nearly 80 million Americans, most in their late teens and
early 20s, are infected with HPV. You can get HPV by having vaginal, anal, or
oral sex with someone who has the virus. It is most commonly spread during
vaginal or anal sex.

Most people never know they have HPV, because there are usually no visible
signs or symptoms. In most cases, HPV goes away on its own and does not causes
health problems. But when HPV does not go away, it can cause health problems
like genital warts and certain types of cancer.

HPV shouldn't be confused with HSV (herpes) or HIV (the virus that causes
AIDS). Although all of these viruses can be passed on during sex, they cause
different symptoms and health problems.

You can do several things to lower your chances of getting HPV or cancers
caused by HPV:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _Get vaccinated._
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _Get screened for cervical cancer_.

_If you are sexually active:_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Use latex condoms the right way every time you have sex.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Be in a mutually monogamous relationship.

**CDC Resources**

_Genital HPV Infection: Fact Sheet _

HPV

HPV Vaccination & Cancer Prevention

Can human papillomavirus (HPV) be treated or cured?

There is no treatment for the virus itself. However, there are treatments for
the health problems that HPV can cause:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Genital warts** can be treated by your healthcare provider or with prescription medication. If left untreated, genital warts may go away, stay the same, or grow in size or number.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Cervical precancer** (cell changes on the cervix that might become cervical cancer) can be treated. Women who get routine Pap tests and follow up as needed can identify problems _before_ cancer develops. Prevention is always better than treatment. For more information, visit CDC's HPV and Cancer Website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * **Other HPV-related cancers** are also more treatable when diagnosed and treated early. For more information, visit CDC's HPV and Cancer Website.

If you think you might have one of these conditions, see your healthcare
provider to discuss evaluation and potential treatment.

HPV vaccine provides safe, effective, and lasting protection against the HPV
infections that most commonly cause cancer.

**CDC Resources**

Genital HPV Infection - Fact Sheet

HPV

HPV Vaccination & Cancer Prevention

2015 Sexually Transmitted Diseases Treatment Guidelines - HPV

2015 Sexually Transmitted Diseases Treatment Guidelines - Anogenital Warts

How does someone get genital human papillomavirus (HPV)?

You can get  human papillomavirus (HPV) by having vaginal, anal, or oral sex
with someone who has the virus. It is most commonly spread during vaginal or
anal sex. HPV can be passed even when an infected person has no signs or
symptoms.

Anyone who is sexually active can get HPV, even if you have had sex with only
one person. You also can develop symptoms years after you have sex with
someone who is infected. This makes it hard to know when you first became
infected. Very rarely, a pregnant woman with genital HPV can pass the virus to
her baby during delivery.

You can do several things to lower your chances of getting HPV or cancers
caused by HPV:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _Get vaccinated._
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _Get screened for cervical cancer_.

_If you are sexually active:_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Use latex condoms the right way every time you have sex.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Be in a mutually monogamous relationship.

**CDC Resources**

Genital HPV Infection - Fact Sheet

HPV

HPV Vaccination & Cancer Prevention

What are the signs and symptoms of genital human papillomavirus (HPV)
infection?

In most cases, human papillomavirus (HPV) goes away on its own and doesn't
cause any health problems. But when HPV does not go away, it can cause health
problems like genital warts and cancer.

Genital warts usually appear as a small bump or groups of bumps in the genital
area. They can be small or large, raised or flat, or shaped like a
cauliflower. A healthcare provider can usually diagnose warts by looking at
the genital area.

HPV cancers include cancers of the cervix, vulva, vagina, penis, and anus. HPV
infection can also cause cancer in the back of the throat, including the base
of the tongue and tonsils.

The best way to prevent HPV infection and disease is to get the HPV vaccine.
HPV vaccine is routinely recommended for girls and boys at age 11 or 12, the
same age the Tdap and meningococcal conjugate vaccines are recommended for
preteens. HPV vaccination can be given starting at age 9 years, the earliest
age at which the vaccine is licensed for use. Teens and young adults who
haven't started the HPV vaccine series should talk to their doctor about
getting it now.

If you are sexually active, using latex condoms the right way every time you
have sex can help lower your chances of getting HPV. However, HPV can infect
areas not covered by a condom, so condoms may not fully protect against
getting HPV.

#### CDC Resources

Genital HPV Infection - Fact Sheet

HPV

HPV and Cancer

How long does human papillomavirus (HPV) infection last?

Most of the time, genital human papillomavirus (HPV) infection:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Only lasts a short time, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Doesn't cause symptoms.

In fact, studies have shown that in most cases, HPV goes away on its own
within 2 years and does not cause any health problems.

In some cases, though, HPV can last longer. When some types of HPV last a long
time (persist), they can lead to health problems, such as genital warts or
cancer.

#### CDC Resources

Genital HPV Infection - Fact Sheet

HPV Information, Statistics and Treatment

HPV

Top of Page

What are the signs and symptoms of genital herpes?

Most people with genital herpes don't know they are infected because they do
not have any symptoms.

If symptoms do occur, they usually appear within 2 weeks after being exposed.
Most of the time, symptoms of genital herpes appear as one or more painful
blisters on or around the genital area or rectum.  The blisters break, leaving
tender ulcers or sores that may take 2 to 4 weeks to heal the first time they
occur.

Other signs and symptoms during the first outbreak may include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * A second crop of sores, or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Flu-like signs and symptoms, including fever, headache, and swollen glands.

Outbreaks can happen again weeks or months after the first, but they're
usually shorter and less severe than the first outbreak. Although the
infection stays in the body forever, the number of outbreaks tends to decrease
over a period of years.  If you think you might have herpes, talk to your
doctor. Your doctor can help you get tested.

The only way to be completely sure you won't get genital herpes is to not have
vaginal, anal, or oral sex. If you are sexually active, you can lower your
chances of getting herpes by being in a long-term mutually monogamous
relationship with a partner who does not have herpes, and by using latex
condoms the right way every time you have sex.

Herpes symptoms can occur in both male and female genital areas that are
covered by a latex condom. But keep in mind that outbreaks can also occur in
areas not covered by a condom, so condoms may not fully protect you from
getting herpes.

#### CDC Resources

Genital Herpes

Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

How is genital herpes diagnosed?

There are several ways your doctor can determine whether you have herpes.
Sometimes, your doctor can diagnose herpes just by looking at your symptoms.

But the only way to tell for sure if you're infected with herpes simplex virus
(HSV) is to get tested. There are two ways to get tested:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * If you have a herpes sore, your doctor can take a sample from the sore, or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Your doctor can order herpes blood tests.

Results from the initial blood test aren't always clear, and a re-test 3 to 4
months later may be needed. Herpes blood tests may be useful, especially if:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You have had symptoms before, but don't currently have a blister or sore to be cultured, or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You have a partner who has genital herpes.

If you're worried you might have herpes, see your doctor. Your doctor can
discuss herpes testing options and may have an easier time diagnosing genital
herpes if you're seen as soon as you get a sore.

Home herpes blood tests are not available. Also, there is no herpes test
available that can tell if a herpes infection in one person came from another
specific person.

#### CDC Resources

Genital Herpes

Genital Herpes Screening FAQ

Sexually Transmitted Diseases Treatment Guidelines, 2015: Genital HSV
Infections

How can genital herpes be prevented?

The only way to be sure to avoid getting genital herpes is to not have
vaginal, anal, or oral sex.

If you are sexually active, you can do the following things to lower your
chances of getting herpes:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Only have sex with 1 partner who has tested negative for herpes,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Use latex condoms the right way every time you have vaginal or anal sex, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Use a condom, dental dam or other barrier method every time you have oral sex.

Keep in mind that herpes symptoms can also occur in areas that are not covered
by a condom, so condoms may not fully protect you from getting herpes.

If you have herpes, you should tell your sex partner(s) and let him or her
know the risk involved. Using condoms may help lower this risk but it will not
get rid of the risk completely. Having sores or other symptoms of herpes can
increase your risk of spreading the disease. Even if you do not have any
symptoms, you can still infect your sex partners.

While there is no cure for herpes, there is a herpes medicine that can be
taken daily and makes it less likely that you will pass the infection on to
your sex partner(s).

#### CDC Resources

Genital Herpes

Genital Herpes Screening FAQs

STD Risk and Oral Sex Fact Sheet

Condom Effectiveness

Top of Page

How is oral herpes spread?

Oral herpes causes sores on or around the mouth and lips. These sores are
often called cold sores or fever blisters.

More than half of the population in the U.S. has oral herpes. Yet, most people
don't know they have it because they don't show any signs or symptoms.

Oral herpes is spread through direct contact between an infected and
uninfected person. Most people are infected with oral herpes during childhood
from nonsexual contact. For example, a person can get infected from a kiss
from a relative or friend.

Oral herpes can also be spread from the mouth to the genitals through oral
sex. Rarely, people may get oral herpes after giving oral sex to someone who
has genital herpes.

Herpes can be released even when skin does not have any sores. Whether or not
symptoms are present, herpes can be spread through

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * contact with skin,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * mucous membrane tissue (soft, moist areas just inside the body's opening), or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * oral or genital secretions where the virus is present.

Using a barrier such as a dental dam or condom when performing oral sex can
reduce the risk of spreading or getting oral herpes, even when no oral herpes
symptoms are present.

People who have active lesions on or around their mouth or who have tingling
sensations before lesions appear should avoid kissing others or giving oral
sex to a partner. Also, people should not receive oral sex from a partner who
is showing these symptoms.

#### CDC Resources

Genital Herpes  
National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention,
Division of STD Prevention

Genital Herpes - CDC Fact Sheet  
National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention,
Division of STD Prevention

STD Risk and Oral Sex - CDC Fact Sheet

#### External Resources

Oral Herpes  
American Sexual Health Associationexternal icon

Top of Page

What are the signs and symptoms of HIV?

Some people may feel like they have the flu after they get HIV. Symptoms may
include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fever
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Chills
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Rash
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Night sweats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Muscle aches
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sore throat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fatigue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Swollen lymph nodes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mouth ulcers

These symptoms may start 2 to 4 weeks after getting HIV. This stage of HIV is
called acute HIV infection.

Not everyone who gets HIV feels sick, and just because you have these symptoms
does __not__  mean you have HIV. It could be something else, like the flu.

If you think you've been exposed to HIV in the past 3 days (72 hours), you
should talk to a healthcare provider right away about post-exposure
prophylaxis, or PEP. PEP means taking HIV medicine after potentially being
exposed to HIV to prevent becoming infected.

PEP must be started within 72 hours after a possible exposure, but the sooner
you start PEP, the better. Every hour counts. If you're prescribed PEP, you'll
need to take it for 28 days. Some emergency rooms also provide PEP.

The only way to know if you have HIV is to get tested. If you may have been
exposed to HIV, visit your healthcare provider, local clinic, or an
organization that provides HIV testing as soon as possible.

If you need help finding a testing site near you:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Visit gettested.cdc.gov, or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Contact your local health departmentexternal icon.

You can also get a home testing kit from a drugstore or online. There are two
FDA-approved home tests:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Home Access HIV-1 Test System and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The OraQuick HIV Test.

#### CDC Resources

HIV Basics: How do I know if I have HIV?

HIV Risk Reduction Tool (BETA)

HIV Basics

HIV Risk and Prevention

HIV/AIDS

Top of Page

What is bacterial vaginosis (BV)?

Bacterial vaginosis (BV) is a condition caused by an imbalance of "good" and
harmful bacteria that are normally found in a woman's vagina. It's the most
common vaginal infection in women ages 15-44.

Researchers do not know the cause of BV or how some women get it. We do know
that the infection typically occurs in sexually active women. The following
basic prevention steps may help lower your risk of developing BV:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Not having sex,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Limiting your number of sex partners, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Not douching

#### CDC Resources

Bacterial Vaginosis - CDC Fact Sheet

Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)

Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

How should bacterial vaginosis (BV) be treated?

Bacterial vaginosis (BV) will sometimes go away without treatment. But if you
have symptoms of BV, you should be checked and treated. It is important that
you take all of the medicine prescribed to you, even if your symptoms go away
before you finish it.

A healthcare provider can treat BV with antibiotics, but BV may return even
after treatment. Treatment may also reduce the risk for some STDs.

Male sex partners of women diagnosed with BV generally do not need to be
treated. BV may be transferred between female sex partners.

#### CDC Resources

Bacterial Vaginosis - CDC Fact Sheet

2015 STD Treatment Guidelines - Bacterial Vaginosis

Bacterial Vaginosis

Sexually Transmitted Diseases

Top of Page

Does CDC offer information on eating disorders, such as anorexia and bulimia?

For information on eating disorders, you can visit the U.S. National Institute
of Mental Health (NIMH) Websiteexternal icon. NIMH is a great resource to
learn about different types of eating disorders, signs and symptoms, treatment
options, mental health research, resources, and more.

CDC does not provide information specifically about eating disorders (such as
anorexia and bulimia), but does offer resources on good nutrition and physical
activity through the Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity
(DNPAO).

Eating disorders are real, treatable medical illnesses. They can cause many
physical health problems, including heart disease or kidney failure, which can
lead to death.

If you think you or someone you know may have an eating disorder, see your
doctor right away.

#### External Resources

Nutrition and Health Issuesexternal icon

National Institute of Mental Health, Eating Disorders external icon

National Institute of Mental Health, Eating Disorders: About More Than
Foodexternal icon

Women's Health, Anorexia Nervosaexternal icon

Women's Health, Binge Eatingexternal icon

Women's Health, Bulimia Nervosaexternal icon

Eating Disorders: HealthFinder.govexternal icon

Top of Page

Can I get HIV from oral sex?

There's little to no risk of getting HIV from oral sex. But, you can get other
sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) and infections from oral sex.

Though the chance of getting HIV from oral sex is extremely low, there are a
few factors that could increase this risk slightly, such as

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ejaculation in the mouth if the mouth has open sores or bleeding gums,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * sores on the genitals, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * the presence of other STDs, which may or may not be visible.

You can lower your risk of getting HIV even more by using a condom the right
way every time you have sex. Using a condom can also protect you and your
partner from some other STDs.

The only way to know if you have HIV is to get tested. If you need help
finding a testing site near you,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Visit the GetTested website, or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Contact your local health departmentexternal icon.

You can also get a home testing kit from a drugstore or online. There are 2
FDA-approved home tests:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Home Access HIV-1 Test System and the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OraQuick HIV Test.

**CDC Resources**

Oral Sex and HIV Risk  
National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention,
Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention  
https://www.cdc.gov/hiv/risk/oralsex.html

HIV Transmission  
National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention,
Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention  
https://www.cdc.gov/hiv/basics/transmission.html

HIV Risk Reduction Tool (BETA)  
National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention,
Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention  
https://wwwn.cdc.gov/hivrisk/

**External Resources**

AIDSinfo  
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, National Institutes of Health  
1-800-HIV-0440 (1-800-448-0440)  
https://aidsinfo.nih.gov/external icon

Top of Page

Page last reviewed: October 17, 2018

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home CDC-INFO

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ask CDC expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Diseases & Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthy Living
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Injury, Violence, & Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Travelersâ Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vaccines & Immunizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Contact CDC-INFO

Contact CDC-INFO

_Regular Business Hours_

Monday - Friday  
8:00 a.m. - 8:00 p.m. ET  
In English or Spanish

_Coronavirus Disease 2019 Questions_  
Open 24 hours, 7 days a week  
In English only

800-CDC-INFO  
(800-232-4636)  
TTY 888-232-6348

Send us your questions via our email form.  
_In English or Spanish_

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health

