https://www.cdc.gov/std/funding/archive.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/std/funding/archive.htm    
                Description: Funding Opportunity Announcements (FOAs), Sexually Transmitted Diseases and Related Conditons - Information from CDC    
                Keywords: Funding Opportunity Announcements,  FOA,  Sexually Transmitted Diseases,  STD,  STI,  Bacterial vaginosis,  BV,  chlamydia,  HPV,  gonorrhea,  herpes,  pelvic inflammatory disease,  PID,  syphilis,  chancroid,  trichomoniasis, Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Funding Archive

Minus

Related Pages

> This page includes a listing of previous CDC STD Prevention funding
> opportunities and grants whose application periods have close.

Disease Intervention Training Centers (DITC)

Disease Intervention Training Centers (DITC) strengthens the capacity of local
and state health departments to conduct STD/HIV intervention services. This
national training center network will support workforce capacity building for
a critical classification of public health staff, Disease Intervention
Specialists (DIS). Funding will support a network of curriculum development
and training centers, serving local and state health jurisdictions, throughout
the United States.

For more information, please visit www.grants.gov/web/grants/search-
grants.htmlExternalexternal iconexternal icon and search **CDC-RFA-
PS20-2003**. Applications were due  _November 26, 2019_.

STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)

The purpose of the STD Surveillance Network (SSuN) cooperative agreement is to
implement new and proven approaches to community-based enhanced and sentinel
surveillance that more fully integrates surveillance of STDs, HIV co-morbidity
and monitors selected demographic and behavioral data important to informing
STD prevention and control activities.



For more information, please visit www.grants.gov/web/grants/search-
grants.htmlExternalexternal iconexternal icon and search **CDC-RFA-
PS19-1907**. Notices of Award were sent August _2019_.

Strengthening STD Prevention and Control for Health Departments (STD PCHD)

"Strengthening STD Prevention and Control for Health Departments (STD PCHD)"
is a five-year cooperative agreement supporting 59 state, local, and
territorial health departments to conduct STD surveillance, prevention, and
control activities. STD PCHD runs from January 1, 2019 through December 31,
2023.

For more information, please visit www.grants.gov/web/grants/search-
grants.htmlExternalexternal icon and search CDC-RFA-PS19-1901. Applications
were due July 31, 2018.  Notices of Award were sent on or before December 20,
2018.

Enhancing national STD/HIV prevention efforts by promoting holistic,
comprehensive, and evidence-informed health and wellness approaches through
strategic partnerships

"Enhancing national STD/HIV prevention efforts by promoting holistic,
comprehensive, and evidence-informed health and wellness approaches through
strategic partnerships" is a 5-year FOA supporting an integrated approach to
STD prevention through the management of a coalition and development and
dissemination of materials, resources, and tools to healthcare providers and
the general public.

For more information, please visit www.grants.gov/web/grants/search-
grants.htmlExternalexternal icon and search CDC-RFA-PS17-1708. Applications
were due  _May 22, 2017_.

J2: Enhanced Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project (eGISP)

The "Enhanced Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project (eGISP)" aims to expand
local capacity to conduct  _N. gonorrhoeae_  surveillance on non-urethral
isolates (i.e., pharyngeal, rectal, and cervical isolates) which will
strengthen local surveillance and may improve the ability to detect changes in
susceptibility patterns sooner. Funding was open to all jurisdictions who had
identified at least one STD clinic in their jurisdiction with the capacity to
collect cultures for  _N. gonorrhoeae_  at multiple anatomic sites, including
STD clinics currently participating in GISP.

For more information, please visit www.grants.gov/web/grants/search-
grants.htmlExternalexternal icon and search CK14-140104PPHF17. Applications
were due  _May 16, 2017_.

J3: Combined HIV and STD Prevention and Care for Vulnerable Men who Have Sex
with Men and Transgender Women via Network Methods

"Combined HIV and STD Prevention and Care for Vulnerable Men who Have Sex with
Men and Transgender Women via Network Methods" was designed to fund activities
that will strengthen state and local STD program public health infrastructure
and build capacity in high-risk local jurisdictions to support improved HIV
and syphilis case detection, detection of people highly vulnerable to
infection and transmission, and subsequent treatment and management of care.

For more information, please visit www.grants.gov/web/grants/search-
grants.htmlExternalexternal icon and search CK14-140104PPHF17. Applications
were due  _May 16, 2017_.

Understanding the Epidemiology of Syphilis in the United States

"Understanding the Epidemiology of Syphilis in the United States" was the
Division of STD Prevention's first research FOA in more than a decade. Funded
investigators are exploring syphilis through the lens of individual and
network-level factors, as well as healthcare accessing and behavior. This
research will help to inform the development of effective and sustainable
interventions to improve health among men who have sex with men (MSM) and
reduce the incidence of syphilis and its sequela among this population.

For more information, please visit www.grants.gov/web/grants/search-
grants.htmlExternalexternal icon and search RFA-PS-17-002. Applications were
due  _Nov 30, 2016_.

National Network of Sexually Transmitted Diseases Clinical Prevention Training
Centers (NNPTC)

The "National Network of Sexually Transmitted Diseases Clinical Prevention
Training Centers (NNPTC)" is a 5-year FOA creating a National Network of STD
Clinical Prevention Training Centers comprising up to eight regional and six
national centers of excellence. The prevention training centers are
developing, disseminating and evaluating training and training assistance to
improve STD care at the individual healthcare provider, clinical organization,
and health care system levels.

For more information, please visit www.grants.gov/web/grants/search-
grants.htmlExternalexternal icon and search CDC-RFA-PS14-1407. Applications
were due  _May 6, 2014_.

Community Approaches to Reducing Sexually Transmitted Diseases (CARS)

"Community Approaches to Reducing Sexually Transmitted Diseases (CARS)" was
developed to work with organizations to promote sexual health, advance
community wellness, influence sexual health behavior and practices, and reduce
STI disparities. This FOA includes five focus areas.

For more information about CARS Cycle 2, please visit
www.grants.gov/web/grants/search-grants.htmlExternalexternal icon and search
CDC-RFA-PS14-1406. Applications were due  _April 10, 2014_.

For more information about CARS Cycle 1, please visit
www.grants.gov/web/grants/search-grants.htmlExternalexternal icon and search
CDC-RFA-PS11-1114. Applications were due  _April 20, 2011_.

For information about CARS Cycle 1 and 2 awardees and highlights, please visit
CDC's CARS webpage.

STD/HIV Disease Intervention Services Training Centers (DISTC)

"STD/HIV Disease Intervention Services Training Centers (DISTC)" is a 5-year
FOA designed to increase training capacity in order to strengthen the skills
and capacity of Disease Intervention Specialists (DIS) and other staff
providing partner services who are working in/with the state or local health
department's STD/HIV prevention programs.

For more information, please visit www.grants.gov/web/grants/search-
grants.htmlExternalexternal icon and search CDC-RFA-PS14-1408. Applications
were due  _January 6, 2014._

Improving Sexually Transmitted Disease Programs through Assessment, Assurance,
Policy Development, and Prevention Strategies (STD-AAPPS)

"Improving Sexually Transmitted Disease Programs through Assessment,
Assurance, Policy Development, and Prevention Strategies (STD-AAPPS)" is a
4-year FOA providing funding to 50 states, 7 cities, and two territories to
decrease the burden and long term health effects of STDs. STD AAPPS provided
grantees with the flexibility to direct resources to support STD prevention
activities that reflect their local situation. Additionally, STD-AAPPS
enhanced program capacity and supported modernization of the STD public health
work force.

For more information, please visit www.grants.gov/web/grants/search-
grants.htmlExternalexternal icon and search CDC-RFA-PS14-1402. Applications
were due  _September 12, 2013._

STD Laboratory-Based Surveillance and Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project

The "STD Laboratory-Based Surveillance and Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance
Project" FOA supports the Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project by
establishing a network of regional laboratories to provide timely
antimicrobial susceptibility testing by agar dilution of  _N. gonorrhoeae_
isolates. Awardees are supporting surveillance of  _N. gonorrhoeae_
antimicrobial susceptibilities and providing a scientific basis for selection
of gonorrhea treatments. Awardees may also be called upon to participate in
special projects to advance the microbiological understanding or enhance
laboratory-based surveillance of gonorrhea, antimicrobial resistance, and
other STDs of interest.

For more information, please visit www.grants.gov/web/grants/search-
grants.htmlExternalexternal icon and search CDC-RFA-PS14-1401. Applications
were due  _August 13, 2013._

Page last reviewed: March 24, 2020

Content source: Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention

home Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diseases & Related Conditionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * HIV/AIDS & STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STDs & Infertility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STDs during Pregnancyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Detailed Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment and Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Risk and Oral Sex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other STDsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Life Stages and Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adolescents and Young Adultsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Adolescents and Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Adolescents and STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gay, Bisexual and Other MSMplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gay Men & STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Just Diagnosed?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Which STD Tests Should I Get?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Lowdown Infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Program Management & Evaluation Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Effective Interventions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gap Assessment Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Outbreak Response Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Congenital Syphilis HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Disseminated Gonococcal Infection HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gonorrhea with Reduced SusceptibilityÂ HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * LGV HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Practical Use of Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Program Operations Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * S.P.A.C.E. Monkey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Data Management & Information Technologyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Generic Information Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * BPMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Partner Servicesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Internet Partner Services Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * VCAmon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CS Webinar Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Projects & Initiativesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD PCHDplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * National Disease Intervention Specialist (DIS) Recognition Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project (GISP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Health Equityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Community Approaches to Reducing STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Indian Health Service Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SDMB Contacts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tools & Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Brochuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The Facts Brochures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * ä¸­æ (Chinese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * KreyÃ²l (Haitian Creole)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ð ÑÑÑÐºÐ¸Ð¹ (Russian)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tiáº½ng ViÃªt (Vietnamese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevention Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Provider Pocket Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicated Content
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos and Podcastsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Letâs Talk About Sexual Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Safe in the City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Webinars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Widgets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Trainingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Prevention Coursesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Passport to Partner Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Advanced STD Intervention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Visual Case Analysis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Principles of STD Supervision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Intervention for Supervisors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Essentials of STD Supervision I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tailored Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Continuing Education Online
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SASSI â SAS Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD 101 in a Boxplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Script for _Sex in the City_ Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Clinical Slidesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Clinical Slides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Picture Cardsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Picture Cards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment and Screeningplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Drug Noticesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gemifloxacin 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Procaine Penicillin G Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Erythromycin (0.5%) Ophthalmic Ointment Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Expedited Partner Therapyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gonorrhea Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Legal Status of EPT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Legal/Policy Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prenatal Syphilis Screening Laws
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD QCS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Additional Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About the Division of STD Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fundingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Disease Intervention Training Centers (DITC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * National Network of STD Clinical Prevention Training Centers (NNPTC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * SSuN: Program and other NOFO Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Funding Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Strategic Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive

STDs Home Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Genital Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * HIV/AIDS & STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * STDs & Infertility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * STDs & Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Other STDs

Follow STD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social_round_twitter twitter STD on Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social_round_facebook facebook STD on Facebook

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

