https://www.cdc.gov/std/healthcomm/stdfact-stdriskandoralsex.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/std/healthcomm/stdfact-stdriskandoralsex.htm    
                Description: Can STDs be spread by Oral Sex? How Common is Oral Sex? Is Oral Sex safer than vaginal or anal sex? What may increase risk? What can I do to prevent transmission?    
                Keywords: fellatio,  cunnilingus,  anilingus,  oral,  Oral Sex,  vaccine,  vaccination,  Facts,  Treatment,  Statistics,  STD,  CDC, Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# STD Risk and Oral Sex - CDC Fact Sheet

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fast Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What is Oral Sex?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * How Common is Oral Sex?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Can STDs Be Spread During Oral Sex?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Which STDs Can Be Passed On from Oral Sex?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Is Oral Sex Safer than Vaginal or Anal Sex?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What May Increase the Chances of Giving or Getting an STD through Oral Sex?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * What Can You Do to Prevent STD Transmission During Oral Sex?

### Fast Facts

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Many sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) can be spread through oral sex.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Using a condom, dental dam or other barrier method every time you have oral sex can reduce the risk of giving or getting an STD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * There is little to no risk of getting or transmitting HIV from oral sex.

### What is Oral Sex?

Oral sex involves using the mouth, lips, or tongue to stimulate the penis
(fellatio), vagina (cunnilingus), or anus (anilingus) of a sex partner. The
penis and testicles and the vagina and area around the vagina are also called
the genitals or genital area.

### How Common is Oral Sex?

![See "How common is oral sex?" for statistics in this
image.](/std/images/85percentgreen.jpg)

Oral sex is commonly practiced by sexually-active adults. More than 85% of
sexually-active adults aged 18-44 years reported having had oral sex at least
once with a partner of the opposite sex. A separate survey conducted during
2011 to 2015 found that 41% of teenagers aged 15-19 years reported having had
oral sex with a partner of the opposite sex.

### Can STDs Be Spread During Oral Sex?

![](/std/images/osfs-banner2.jpg)

Many STDs, as well as other infections, can be spread through oral sex. Anyone
exposed to an infected partner can get an STD in the mouth, throat, genitals,
or rectum. The risk of getting an STD from oral sex, or spreading an STD to
others through oral sex, depends on several things, including

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The particular STD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The sex acts practiced.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * How common the STD is in the population to which the sex partners belong.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The number of specific sex acts performed.

In general:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * It may be possible to get some STDs in the mouth or throat from giving oral sex to a partner with a genital or anal/rectal infection, particularly from giving oral sex to a partner with an infected penis.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * It also may be possible to get certain STDs on the penis (and possibly the vagina, anus or rectum) from getting oral sex from a partner with a mouth or throat infection.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * It's possible to have an STD in more than one area at the same time, for example in the throat and the genitals.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Several STDs that may be transmitted by oral sex can then spread throughout the body (i.e., syphilis, gonorrhea, and intestinal infections).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Anilingus (or oral sex involving the anus) can transmit hepatitis A and B, intestinal parasites like _Giardia_ , and bacteria like _E. coli_ and _Shigella_.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * STDs can be spread to a sex partner even when the infected partner has no signs or symptoms.  If you are infected with an STD, you might not know it because many STDs may have **no symptoms**.

### Which STDs Can Be Passed On from Oral Sex?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * HPV (human papillomavirus)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Trichomoniasis

![Chlamydia](/std/chlamydia/images/chlam79.jpg)

#### Chlamydia  
( _Chlamydia trachomatis_ )



##### Risk of infection from oral sex:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Giving oral sex to a partner with an infected penis can result in getting chlamydia in the throat.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Giving oral sex to a partner with an infected vagina or urinary tract may result in getting chlamydia in the throat.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Giving oral sex to a partner with an infected rectum might result in getting chlamydia in the throat.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Getting oral sex on the penis from a partner with chlamydia in the throat can result in getting chlamydia of the penis.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Getting oral sex on the vagina from a partner with chlamydia in the throat might result in getting chlamydia of the vagina or urinary tract.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Getting oral sex on the anus from a partner with chlamydia in the throat might result in getting chlamydia in the rectum.*

_* Statements followed by an asterisk (*) have not been well studied._

##### Areas of initial infection:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Throat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Genitals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Urinary tract
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Rectum

##### Initial signs and symptoms of infection:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Most chlamydia infections in the throat have no symptoms. When symptoms are present, they can include a sore throat.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Many genital, urinary tract, or rectal chlamydia infections have no symptoms. When symptoms are present, they can include: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Discharge from vagina or penis (discharge from the vagina may be bloody).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Burning feeling when urinating.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Painful or swollen testicles.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rectal pain or discharge

##### Treatment:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Chlamydia can be cured with the right medicine.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The sex partners of a person with chlamydia should also be tested for infection. Those who are diagnosed with chlamydia should not have sex until 7 days after they and their sex partners have completed treatment.

##### If left untreated, throat infections:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Can be spread to uninfected sex partners, particularly by performing oral sex on a male partner's penis.

##### If left untreated, genital, urinary and/or rectal infections:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Can be spread to uninfected sex partners.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * In women: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Can cause pelvic inflammatory disease (PID), which can lead to chronic pelvic pain, infertility, and ectopic pregnancy (a pregnancy in the fallopian tube or elsewhere outside of the womb).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * In pregnant women: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Might result in premature birth or low birth weight in babies.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Can be spread to the baby during delivery, and it can cause chlamydia infection in the eyes or infection of the respiratory tract that can develop into pneumonia.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * In men: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Can cause epididymitis, a painful condition of the ducts attached to the testicles that may lead to ductal scarring.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * In everyone: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * May increase risk of getting HIV infection.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Might increase risk of spreading HIV to sex partners.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * May cause a reaction (reactive arthritis) throughout the body that can lead to arthritis (joint pain), conjunctivitis (pink eye), and/or a rash on the soles of the feet or elsewhere.

![](/std/gonorrhea/images/gono79.jpg)

#### Gonorrhea  
( _Neisseria gonorrhoeae_ )



##### Risk of infection from oral sex:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Giving oral sex to a partner with an infected penis can result in getting gonorrhea in the throat.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Giving oral sex to a partner with an infected vagina or urinary tract might result in getting gonorrhea in the throat.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Giving oral sex to a partner with an infected rectum might result in getting gonorrhea in the throat.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Getting oral sex on the penis from a partner with gonorrhea in the throat may result in getting gonorrhea of the penis.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Getting oral sex on the vagina from a partner with gonorrhea in the throat might result in getting gonorrhea of the vagina or urinary tract.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Getting oral sex on the anus from a partner with gonorrhea in the throat might result in getting gonorrhea in the rectum.*

_* Statements followed by an asterisk (*) have not been well studied._

##### Areas of initial infection:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Throat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Genitals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Urinary tract
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Rectum

##### Initial signs and symptoms of infection:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Most gonorrhea infections in the throat have no symptoms. When symptoms are present, they can include a sore throat.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms of genital, urinary tract, or rectal infection may include: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Discharge from vagina or penis (discharge from the vagina may be bloody).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Burning feeling when urinating.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Painful or swollen testicles.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rectal pain or discharge.

##### Treatment:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Infections in the throat are harder to cure than genital or rectal infections but can be treated with recommended antibiotics.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Genital and rectal infections can also be cured with the right medicine.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The sex partners of a person with gonorrhea should also be tested for infection. Those who are diagnosed with gonorrhea should not have sex until 7 days after they and their sex partners have completed treatment.

##### If left untreated, throat infections:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Can be spread to uninfected sex partners.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Might spread through the body causing a rash and joint pain. This condition is called disseminated gonococcal infection. The heart can also be infected. This is a serious and potentially life-threatening condition.

##### If left untreated, genital, urinary and/or rectal infections:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Can be spread to other sex partners.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * In women: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Can cause pelvic inflammatory disease (PID), which can lead to chronic pelvic pain, infertility, and ectopic pregnancy (a pregnancy in the fallopian tube or elsewhere outside of the womb).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * In pregnant women: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Might result in premature birth or low birth weight in babies.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Can be spread to the baby during delivery, and can cause blindness, joint infection, or a life-threatening blood infection in the baby.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * In men: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Can cause epididymitis, a painful condition of the ducts attached to the testicles that may lead to ductal scarring.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * In everyone: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * May increase risk of getting HIV infection.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Might increase risk of spreading HIV to sex partners.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * May spread through the body causing skin sores and joint pain. This condition is called disseminated gonococcal infection. The heart can also be infected, which is a serious and potentially life threatening condition.

![](/std/syphilis/images/syph79.jpg)

#### Syphilis  
( _Treponema pallidum_ )



##### Risk of infection from oral sex:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Giving oral sex to a partner with a syphilis sore or rash on the genitals or anus can result in getting syphilis.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Getting oral sex from a partner with a syphilis sore or rash on the lips or mouth, or in the throat, can result in getting syphilis.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Another important factor that affects risk of spreading syphilis is how long an infected partner has had syphilis.

##### Areas of initial infection:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mouth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Throat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Genitals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Anus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Rectum

##### Initial signs and symptoms of infection:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * May not have symptoms.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * One or more painless ulcers or sores on the lips, mouth, or throat; on the skin; or on or near the genitals or anus.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Rash on trunk, palms of hands, and/or soles of feet.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Flu-like symptoms.

##### Treatment:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syphilis can be cured with the right medicine.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Sex partners of a person with syphilis should also be tested for infection, including some of the infected person's past sex partners. Some of these partners should be treated even if their syphilis test results are negative.

##### If left untreated, syphilis:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Can be spread to others through contact with syphilis sores or rash.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * In pregnant women: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Can be spread to the baby during pregnancy.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Can cause stillbirth (a baby born dead).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Babies with untreated syphilis may become developmentally delayed, have seizures, or die.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * In everyone: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Can increase risk of getting HIV infection.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Can increase risk of spreading HIV to sex partners.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * May cause damage to internal organs, blindness, muscle weakness, dementia, and even death.

![](/std/herpes/images/herpes79.jpg)

#### Herpes  
(herpes simplex virus types 1 and 2)



##### Risk of infection from oral sex:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Giving oral sex to a partner with herpes on the genital area, anus, buttocks, or in the rectum may result in getting herpes on the lips, mouth, or in the throat.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Getting oral sex from a partner with herpes on the lips, mouth, or in the throat can result in getting herpes on the genital area, anus, buttocks, or in the rectum.

##### Areas of infection:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mouth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Throat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Genital area
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Anus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Rectum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Buttocks

##### Signs and symptoms of infection:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * May not have symptoms.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Headache or fever (during initial infection).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Painful or itching sores at or near the area of infection.

##### Treatment:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * There is no cure for a herpes, but antiviral medicine can shorten and help decrease symptoms of herpes outbreaks.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Daily antiviral medication can prevent or shorten herpes outbreaks.

Even with treatment, oral (lip, mouth and throat) infections:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Can be spread to others, including sex partners.

Even with treatment, genital area, buttock, anal, and/or rectal infections:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Can be spread to uninfected sex partners.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * In pregnant women: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * May be spread to the baby during delivery, and can cause brain damage, damage to internal organs, or even death of the baby.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * In everyone: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Can increase risk of getting HIV infection.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Can increase risk of giving HIV to sex partners.

![](/std/hpv/images/hpv79.jpg)

#### HPV  
(human papillomavirus)



##### Risk of infection from oral sex:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Giving oral sex to a partner with an HPV-infected penis or genital area can result in getting HPV in the throat.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Giving oral sex to a partner with an HPV-infected vagina or genital area can result in getting HPV in the throat.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Giving oral sex to a partner with HPV on the anus or in the rectum may result in getting HPV in the throat.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Getting oral sex from a partner with HPV in the throat might result in getting HPV on the genital area, anus, or rectum.*

_* Statements followed by an asterisk (*) have not been well studied._

##### Areas of infection:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mouth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Throat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Genital area
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vagina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cervix
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Anus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Rectum

##### Signs and symptoms of infection:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * May have no symptoms.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Warts in the throat (laryngeal or respiratory papillomatosis): 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * May cause changes in the voice, difficulty speaking, or shortness of breath.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Genital or anal warts.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Abnormal changes in cells of vagina, cervix, or anus that can be found by clinical examination and tests (Pap and/or HPV tests).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Some types of HPV can lead to vaginal or cervical cancer, anal, penile, head, and neck cancers.

##### Vaccine:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * HPV vaccine protects against transmission of certain types of HPV. It is recommended for all boys and girls at ages 11-12, as well as for everyone through age 26 if not vaccinated already. More details about who should be vaccinated and when are available from CDC's HPV website.

##### Treatment:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Warts in the mouth and throat: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * May disappear, remain unchanged, or grow in size or number.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Surgery may be used to remove warts in the throat.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment may reduce warts but does not cure HPV infection.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Genital and anal warts: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * May go away on their own, remain unchanged, or grow in size or number.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatments include medicines applied to the warts, freezing the warts (cryotherapy), or surgery to remove the warts.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment may reduce warts but does not cure HPV infection.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Abnormal changes in cells of vagina, cervix, or anus: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * May need more clinical examination and testing (Pap and/or HPV tests).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other procedures may be used, such as biopsy (taking a small sample of tissue) and/or removal of abnormal tissue, depending on age, pregnancy status, and test results.

Even with treatment, warts in the throat:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Might be spread to uninfected sex partners.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * May have recurrences (recurrent respiratory papillomatosis).

Even with treatment, genital and anal warts:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Can be spread to uninfected sex partners.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * May return but will not develop into cancer.

Mouth and throat infections by _several types of HPV that do not cause warts_
may develop into head or neck cancer.

Abnormal changes in cells of vagina or anus:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Might develop into cancer. Although some women have abnormal Pap and/or HPV test results, few women get cervical cancer if they get the appropriate follow-up and treatment.

![](/std/hiv/images/hiv79.jpg)

#### HIV  
(human immunodeficiency virus)



##### Risk of infection from oral sex:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Giving oral sex on the penis of a partner with HIV can result in getting HIV. The risk of infection is lower than the risks from vaginal or anal sex.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Giving oral sex on the vagina of a partner with HIV may result in getting HIV. The risk of infection is thought to be very low.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Giving oral sex on the anus of a partner with HIV may result in getting HIV. There are few reports of transmission from this type of oral sex.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Getting oral sex on the penis from a partner with HIV may result in getting HIV. This risk is thought to be very low, and has not been well studied.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Getting oral sex on the vagina from a partner with HIV might result in getting HIV. This risk is thought to be extremely low, and has not been well studied.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Getting oral sex on the anus from a partner with HIV might result in getting HIV. There are few reports of transmission from this type of oral sex.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Another important factor that affects risk of HIV spread is the virus level (i.e., viral load) in an infected partner's blood and other body fluids at the time of the sexual encounter. An undetectable HIV viral load eliminates the risk of spreading HIV from oral sex.

##### Areas of infection:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Infection of the immune system throughout the body.

##### Initial signs and symptoms of infection:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * May have no symptoms for many years.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Flu-like symptoms.

##### Treatment

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * There is no cure for HIV, but antiviral and other medicines can help people with HIV live longer with a better quality of life.

Even with treatment, HIV infection:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Can increase the risk of getting certain infections and cancers.

![](/std/trichomonas/images/trich79.jpg)

#### Trichomoniasis  
(infection with _T. vaginalis_ )



##### Risk of infection from oral sex:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Giving oral sex to a partner with an infected vagina or a partner with an infected penis might result in getting trichomoniasis of the throat. There are few reports of potential spread from oral sex.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Spread of trichomoniasis by other oral sex practices has not been reported.

##### Areas of initial infection

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vagina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Penis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mouth/throat (possibly)

##### Initial signs and symptoms of infection

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Infections of the genitals or urinary tract may have no symptoms, especially in men
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms of genital or urinary tract infection can include: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Discharge from vagina or penis.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vaginal area redness.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vaginal itching.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Burning feeling when urinating.

##### Treatment

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Can be cured with right medicine.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The sex partners of people with trichomoniasis should also be tested for infection. Those who are diagnosed with trichomoniasis should not have sex until they and their sex partners have completed treatment.

##### If left untreated, genital or urinary infections:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Can be spread to uninfected sex partners.

### Is Oral Sex Safer than Vaginal or Anal Sex?

![](/std/images/osfs-safer3-200.jpg)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Many STDs can be spread through oral sex. However, it is difficult to compare the exact risks of getting specific STDs from specific types of sexual activity. This is partly because most people who have oral sex also have vaginal or anal sex. Also, few studies have looked at the risks of getting STDs other than HIV from giving oral sex on the vagina or anus, compared to giving oral sex on the penis.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Studies have shown that the risk of getting HIV from having oral sex with an infected partner (either giving or getting oral sex) is much lower than the risk of getting HIV from anal or vaginal sex with an infected partner. This may not be true for other STDs - in one study of gay men with syphilis, 1 out of 5 reported having only oral sex. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Getting HIV from oral sex may be extremely low, but it is hard to know the exact risk. If you are having oral sex you should still protect yourself. Repeated unprotected oral sex exposure to HIV may represent a considerable risk for spread of other STDs for which the risk of spread through oral sex has not been as well studied.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * It is possible that getting certain STDs, such as chlamydia or gonorrhea, in the throat may not pose as great a threat to an infected person's health as getting an STD in the genital area or rectum. Having these infections in the throat might increase the risk of getting HIV. Having gonorrhea in the throat also may lead to spread of the disease throughout the body. In addition: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Having infections of chlamydia and gonorrhea in the throat may make it easier to spread these infections to others through oral sex. This is especially important for gonorrhea, since throat infections can be harder to treat than urinary, genital or rectal infections.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infections from certain STDs, such as syphilis and HIV, spread throughout the body. Therefore, infections that are acquired in the throat may lead to the same health problems as infections acquired in the genitals or rectum.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mouth and throat infections by certain types of HPV may develop into oral or neck cancer.

### What May Increase the Chances of Giving or Getting an STD through Oral
Sex?

It is possible that certain factors may increase a person's chances of getting
HIV or other STDs during oral sex if exposed to an infected partner, such as:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Having poor oral health which can include tooth decay, gum disease or bleeding gums, and oral cancer.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Having sores in the mouth or on the genitals.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Being exposed to the "pre-cum" or "cum" (also known as pre-ejaculate or ejaculate) of an infected partner.

_However, no scientific studies have been done to show whether or not these
factors actually do increase the risk of getting HIV or STDs from oral sex._

### What Can You Do to Prevent STD Transmission During Oral Sex?

You can lower your chances of giving or getting STDs during oral sex by using
a condom, dental dam or other barrier method every time you have oral sex.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * For oral sex on the penis: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cover the penis with a non-lubricated latex condom.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Use plastic (polyurethane) condoms if you or your partner is allergic to latex.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * For oral sex on the vagina or anus: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Use a dental dam.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cut open a condom to make a square, and put it between the mouth and the partner's vagina or anus.

The only way to avoid STDs is to not have vaginal, anal, or oral sex.

If you are sexually active, you can do the following things to lower your
chances of getting an STD:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Being in a long-term mutually monogamous relationship with a partner who is not infected with an STD (e.g., a partner who has been tested and has negative STD test results).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Using latex condoms the right way every time you have sex.

It's important to remember that many infected individuals may be unaware of
their infection because STDs often have no symptoms and are unrecognized.

**If you are sexually active, you should get tested regularly for STDs and HIV
and talk to your partner(s) about STDs.  If you think you might have an STD,
stop having sex and visit your doctor or clinic to get tested. There are free
and low-cost options for testing in your area.external icon It is important
that you talk openly with your health care provider about any activities that
might put you at risk for an STD, including oral sex.  **

### Additional Resources:

For more information on all the STDs discussed in this fact sheet visit:
https://www.cdc.gov/std/healthcomm/fact_sheets.htm

FOR MORE INFORMATION:

STD information and referrals to STD Clinics  
CDC-INFO  
1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636)  
TTY: 1-888-232-6348  
In English, en Español

American Sexual Health Association (ASHA)  
1-800-783-9877  
www.ashastd.orgexternal icon

References

Patel et al. AIDS. 2014 Jun 19; 28(10): 1509-1519.

Habel MA, Leichliter JS, Dittus PJ, Spicknall IH, Aral SO. Heterosexual Anal
and Oral Sex in Adolescents and Adults in the United States, 2011-2015. Sex
Transm Dis. 2018 Dec;45(12):775-782.

Chandra A, Mosher WD, Copen C, Sionean C. Sexual behavior, sexual attraction,
and sexual identity in the United States: data from the 2006-2008 National
Survey of Family Growth. 36, 1-36. 2011. Hyattsville, MD, National Center for
Health Statistics. National health statistics reports.

Copen CE, Chandra A, Febo-Vazquez I. Sexual behavior, sexual attraction, and
sexual orientation among adults aged 18-44 in the United States: data from the
2011-2013 National Survey of Family Growth. 88, 1-13. 2016. Hyattsville, MD,
National Center for Health Statistics. National health statistics reports.

Sparling PF, Swartz MN, Musher DM, Healy BP. Clinical Manifestations of
Syphilis. In: Holmes KK, Sparling PF, Stamm WE et al., eds. _Sexually
Transmitted Diseases_. Fourth ed. New York: McGraw-Hill; 2008;662-684.

Dooley SW, Thrun M. HIV Transmission Prevention in the Context of Care. In:
Holmes KK, Sparling PF, Stamm WE et al., eds. _Sexually Transmitted Diseases_.
Fourth ed. New York: McGraw-Hill; 2008;1362-1392.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Questions and answers on the use
of HIV medications to help prevent the transmission of HIV. 4-13-2010.
2-7-2012.

Jones RB, Rabinovitch RA, Katz BP et al. Chlamydia trachomatis in the pharynx
and rectum of heterosexual patients at risk for genital infection. _Annals of
Internal Medicine_ 1985;102:757-762.

Templeton DJ, Jin F, Imrie J et al. Prevalence, incidence and risk factors for
pharyngeal chlamydia in the community based Health in Men (HIM) cohort of
homosexual men in Sydney, Australia. _Sexually Transmitted Infections_
2008;84:361-363.

Wikstrom A, Rotzen-Ostlund M, Markowitz E. Occurrence of pharyngeal Chlamydia
trachomatis is uncommon in patients with a suspected or confirmed genital
infection. _Acta Obstetricia et Gynecologica_ 2010;89:78-81.

Benn PD, Rooney G, Carder C et al. Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria
gonorrhoeae infection and the sexual behaviour of men who have sex with men.
_Sexually Transmitted Infections_ 2007;83:106-112.

Bradshaw CS, Tabrizi SN, Read TRH et al. Etiologies of nongonococcal
urethritis: bacteria, viruses and the association with orogenital exposure.
_Journal of Infectious Diseases_ 6 A.D.;193:336-345.

Jin F, Prestage GP, Mao L et al. Incidence and risk factors for urethral and
anal gonorrhoea and chlamydia in a cohort of HIV-negative homosexual men: the
Health in Men Study. _Sexually Transmitted Infections_ 2007;83:113-119.

Bernstein KT, Stephens SC, Barry PM et al. Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria
gonorrhoeae transmission from the oropharynx to the urethra among men who have
sex with men. _Clinical Infectious Diseases_ 2009;49:1793-1797.

Lafferty WE, Hughes JP, Handsfield HH. Sexually transmitted diseases in men
who have sex with men. Acquisition of gonorrhea and nongonococcal urethritis
by fellatio and implications for STD/HIV prevention. _Sexually Transmitted
Diseases_ 1997;24:272-278.

Stamm WE. Chlamydia trachomatis Infections of the Adult. In: Holmes KK,
Sparling PF, Stamm WE et al., eds. _Sexually Transmitted Diseases_. Fourth ed.
New York: McGraw-Hill; 2008;575-593.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Sexually transimitted diseases
treatment guidelines, 2010. _Morbidity & Mortality Weekly Report_
2010;59:1-110.

Paavonen J, Westrom L, Eschenbach D. Pelivc Inflammatory Disease. In: Holmes
KK, Sparling PF, Stamm WE et al., eds. _Sexually Transmitted Diseases_. Fourth
ed. New York: McGraw-Hill; 2008;1017-1050.

Hitti J, Watts DH. Bacterial Sexually Transmitted Infections in Pregnancy. In:
Holmes KK, Sparling PF, Stamm WE et al., eds. _Sexually Transmitted Diseases_.
Fourth ed. New York: McGraw-Hill; 2008;1529-1561.

Kohlhoff SA, Hammerschlag MR. Gonoccal and Chlamydial Infections in Infants
and Children. In: Holmes KK, Sparling PF, Stamm WE et al., eds. _Sexually
Transmitted Diseases_. Fourth ed. New York: McGraw-Hill; 2008;1613-1627.

Geisler WM, Krieger JN. Epididymitis. In: Holmes KK, Sparling PF, Stamm WE et
al., eds. _Sexually Transmitted Diseases_. Fourth ed. New York: McGraw-Hill;
2008;1127-1145.

Berman SM, Cohen MS. STD Treatment: How Can It Improve HIV Prevention in the
South? _Sexually Transmitted Diseases_ 2006;33:850-857.

Rottingen JA, Cameron DW, Garnett GP. A systematic review of the epidemiologic
interactions between classic sexually transmitted diseases and HIV: how much
really is known?. [Review] [147 refs]. _Sexually Transmitted Diseases_
2001;28:579-597.

Fleming DT, Wasserheit JN. From epidemiological synergy to public health
policy and practice: the contribution of other sexually transmitted diseases
to sexual transmission of HIV infection. [Review] [81 refs]. _Sexually
Transmitted Infections_ 1999;75:3-17.

World Health Organization. Consultation on STD interventions for preventing
HIV: what is the evidence? 1-54. 2000. UNAIDS/00.06E, WHO/HIS/2000.02.
2-19-2010.

Colven R. Generalized Cutaneous Manifestations of STD and HIV Infection:
Typical Presentations, Differential Diagnosis, and Management. In: Holmes KK,
Sparling PF, Stamm WE et al., eds. _Sexually Transmitted Diseases_. Fourth ed.
New York: McGraw-Hill; 2008;1177-1197.

Murray AB, Greenhouse PR, Nelson WL, Norman JE, Jeffries DJ, Anderson J.
Coincident acquisition of Neisseria gonorrhoeae and HIV from fellatio.
_Lancet_ 1991;338:830.

Wong ML, Chan RK. A prospective study of pharyngeal gonorrhoea and
inconsistent condom use for oral sex among female brothel-based sex workers in
Singapore. _International Journal of STD & AIDS_ 1999;10:595-599.

Morris SR, Klausner JD, Buchbinder SP et al. Prevalence and incidence of
pharyngeal gonorrhea in a longitudinal sample of men who have sex with men:
the EXPLORE study. _Clinical Infectious Diseases_ 2006;43:1284-1289.

Sackel SG, Alpert S, Fiumara NJ, Donner A, Laughlin CA, McCormack WM.
Orogenital Contact and the Isolation of Neisserioa gonorrhoeae, Mycoplasma
hominis, and Ureaplasma urealyticum from the Pharynx. _Sexually Transmitted
Diseases_ 1979;6:64-68.

Wong ML, Chan RK, Koh D. Promoting condoms for oral sex: impact on pharyngeal
gonorrhea among female brothel-based sex workers. _Sexually Transmitted
Diseases_ 2002;29:311-318.

Castor D, Jolly PE, Furlonge C et al. Determinants of gonorrhoea infection
among STD clinic attenders in Trinidad - II: Sexual behavioural factors.
_International Journal of STD & AIDS_ 2002;13:46-51.

Hook EW, III, Handsfield HH. Gonococcal Infections in the Adult. In: Holmes
KK, Sparling PF, Stamm WE et al., eds. _Sexually Transmitted Diseases_. Fourth
ed. New York: McGraw-Hill; 2008;627-645.

Jin F, Prestage GP, Imrie J et al. Anal Sexually Transmitted Infections and
Risk of HIV Infection in Homosexual Men. _Journal of Acquired Immune
Deficiency Syndromes: JAIDS_ 2010;53:144-149.

Weir SS, Feldblum PJ, Roddy RE, Zekeng L. Gonorrhea as a risk factor for HIV
acquisition. _AIDS_ 1994;8:1605-1608.

Peterman TA, Furness BW. The resurgence of syphilis among men who have sex
with men. [Review] [65 refs]. _Current Opinion in Infectious Diseases_
2007;20:54-59.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Transmission of primary and
secondary syphilis by oral sex-Chicago, Illinois, 1998-2002. _MMWR - Morbidity
& Mortality Weekly Report_ 2004;53:966-968.

Hourihan M, Wheeler H, Houghton R, Goh BT. Lessons from the syphilis outbreak
in homosexual men in east London. _Sexually Transmitted Infections_
2004;80:509-511.

Imrie J, Lambert N, Mercer CH et al. Refocusing health promotion for syphilis
prevention: results of a case-control study of men who have sex with men on
England's south coast. _Sexually Transmitted Infections_ 2006;82:80-83.

Simms I, Fenton KA, Ashton M et al. The re-emergence of syphilis in the United
Kingdom: the new epidemic phases. _Sexually Transmitted Diseases_
2005;32:220-226.

Campos-Outcalt D, Hurwitz S. Female-to-female transmission of syphilis: a case
report. _Sexually Transmitted Diseases_ 2002;29:119-120.

Ditzen AK, Braker K, Zoellner KH, Teichmann D. The syphilis-HIV
interdependency. _International Journal of STD & AIDS_ 2005;16:642-643.

McCall MB, van Lith-Verhoeven JJ, van CR et al. Ocular syphilis acquired
through oral sex in two HIV-infected patients. _Netherlands Journal of
Medicine_ 2004;62:206-208.

Jin F, Prestage GP, Kippax SC et al. Epidemic syphilis among homosexually
active men in Sydney.[see comment]. _Medical Journal of Australia_
2005;183:179-183.

Shafii T, Radolf JD, Sanchez PJ, Schulz KF, Murphy KF. Congenital Syphilis.
In: Holmes KK, Sparling PF, Stamm WE et al., eds. _Sexually Transmitted
Diseases_. Fourth ed. New York: McGraw-Hill; 2008;1577-1612.

Jin F, Prestage GP, Mao L et al. Transmission of herpes simplex virus types 1
and 2 in a prospective cohort of HIV-negative gay men: the health in men
study. _Journal of Infectious Diseases_ 2006;194:561-570.

Lafferty WE, Coombs RW, Benedetti J, Critchlow C, Corey L. Recurrences after
oral and genital herpes simplex virus infection. Influence of site of
infection and viral type. _New England Journal of Medicine_
1987;316:1444-1449.

Lafferty WE, Downey L, Celum C, Wald A. Herpes simplex virus type 1 as a cause
of genital herpes: impact on surveillance and prevention. _Journal of
Infectious Diseases_ 2000;181:1454-1457.

Lowhagen GB, Tunback P, Andersson K, Bergstrom T, Johannisson G. First
episodes of genital herpes in a Swedish STD population: a study of
epidemiology and transmission by the use of herpes simplex virus (HSV) typing
and specific serology. _Sexually Transmitted Infections_ 2000;76:179-182.

Corey L, Wald A. Genital Herpes. In: Holmes KK, Sparling PF, Stamm WE et al.,
eds. _Sexually Transmitted Diseases_. Fourth ed. New York: McGraw-Hill;
2008;399-437.

Whitley RJ. Herpes Simplex Virus. In: Wallace RB, ed. _Public Health and
Preventive Medicine_. The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.; 2008.

Coyle PV, O'Neill HJ, Wyatt DE, McCaughey C, Quah S, McBride MO. Emergence of
herpes simplex type 1 as the main cause of recurrent genital ulcerative
disease in women in Northern Ireland. _Journal of Clinical Virology_
2003;27:22-29.

Lowhagen GB, Tunback P, Bergstrom T. Proportion of herpes simplex virus (HSV)
type 1 and type 2 among genital and extragenital HSV isolates. _Acta Dermato-
Venereologica_ 2002;82:118-120.

Bradford RD, Whitley RL, Stagno S. Herpesvirus Infections in Neonates and
Children: Cytomegalovirus and Herpes Simplex Virus. In: Holmes KK, Sparling
PF, Stamm WE et al., eds. _Sexually Transmitted Diseases_. Fourth ed. New
York: McGraw-Hill; 2008;1629-1658.

Smith EM, Ritchie JM, Summersgill KF et al. Age, sexual behavior and human
papillomavirus infection in oral cavity and oropharyngeal cancers.
_International Journal of Cancer_ 2004;108:766-772.

Kashima HK, Shah F, Lyles A et al. A comparison of risk factors in juvenile-
onset and adult-onset recurrent respiratory papillomatosis. _Laryngoscope_
1992;102:9-13.

D'Souza G, Kreimer AR, Viscidi R et al. Case-control study of human
papillomavirus and oropharyngeal cancer. _New England Journal of Medicine_
2007;356:1944-1956.

Coutlee F, Trottier AM, Ghattas G et al. Risk factors for oral human
papillomavirus in adults infected and not infected with human immunodeficiency
virus. _Sexually Transmitted Diseases_ 1997;24:23-31.

Dahlstrom KR, Li G, Tortolero-Luna G, Wei Q, Sturgis EM. Differences in
history of sexual behavior between patients with oropharyngeal squamous cell
carcinoma and patients with squamous cell carcinoma at other head and neck
sites. _Head & Neck_ 2010;33:847-855.

D'Souza G, Agrawal Y, Halpern J, Bodison S, Gillison ML. Oral sexual behaviors
associated with prevalent oral human papillomavirus infection. _Journal of
Infectious Diseases_ 2009;199:1263-1269.

Kreimer AR, Alberg AJ, Daniel R et al. Oral human papillomavirus infection in
adults is associated with sexual behavior and HIV serostatus. _Journal of
Infectious Diseases_ 2004;189:686-698.

Kreimer AR, Alberg AJ, Viscidi R, Gillison ML. Gender differences in sexual
biomarkers and behaviors associated with human papillomavirus-16, -18, and -33
seroprevalence. _Sexually Transmitted Diseases_ 2004;31:247-256.

Rintala M, Grenman S, Puranen M, Syrjanen S. Natural history of oral
papillomavirus infections in spouses: a prospective Finnish HPV Family Study.
_Journal of Clinical Virology_ 2006;35:89-94.

Clarke J, Terry RM, Lacey CJ. A study to estimate the prevalence of upper
respiratory tract papillomatosis in patients with genital warts.
_International Journal of STD & AIDS_ 1991;2:114-115.

Aaltonen LM, Cajanus S, Back L, Nieminen P, Paavonen J, Ranki A.
Extralaryngeal HPV infections in male patients with adult-onset laryngeal
papillomatosis. _European Archives of Oto-Rhino-Laryngology_ 2005;262:708-712.

Gillison ML, Broutian T, Pickard RKL et al. Prevalence of oral HPV infection
in the United States, 2009-2010. _JAMA_ 2012;307:E1-E11.

Winer RL, Koutsky LA. Genital Human Papillomavirus Infection. In: Holmes KK,
Sparling PF, Stamm WE et al., eds. _Sexually Transmitted Diseases_. Fourth ed.
New York: McGraw-Hill; 2008;489-508.

Castro TP, Bussoloti F, I. Prevalence of human papillomavirus (HPV) in oral
cavity and oropharynx. [Review] [82 refs]. _Revista Brasileira de
Otorrinolaringologia_ 2006;72:272-282.

Miller CS, White DK. Human papillomavirus expression in oral mucosa,
premalignant conditions, and squamous cell carcinoma: a retrospective review
of the literature. [Review] [99 refs]. _Oral Surgery Oral Medicine Oral
Pathology Oral Radiology & Endodontics_ 1996;82:57-68.

Terai M, Hashimoto K, Yoda K, Sata T. High prevalence of human
papillomaviruses in the normal oral cavity of adults. _Oral Microbiology &
Immunology_ 1999;14:201-205.

Derkay CS, Darrow DH. Recurrent respiratory papillomatosis. [Review] [63
refs]. _Annals of Otology, Rhinology & Laryngology_ 2006;115:1-11.

Derkay CS. Recurrent respiratory papillomatosis. [Review] [39 refs].
_Laryngoscope_ 2001;111:57-69.

Hawes SE, Kiviat NB. Screening for Cervical Cancer. In: Holmes KK, Sparling
PF, Stamm WE et al., eds. _Sexually Transmitted Diseases_. Fourth ed. New
York: McGraw-Hill; 2008;1075-1104.

Balasubramanian A, Palefsky JM, Koutsky LA. Cervical Neoplasia and Other STD-
Related Genital Tract Neoplasias. In: Holmes KK, Sparling PF, Stamm WE et al.,
eds. _Sexually Transmitted Diseases_. Fourth ed. New York: McGraw-Hill;
2008;1051-1074.

Datta DS, Dunne E, Saraiya M, Unger E, Markowitz L. Human Papillomavirus. In:
Roush SW, McIntyre L, Baldy LM, eds. _Manual for the Surveillance of Vaccine-
Preventable Diseases_. Fourth ed. Atlanta, GA: Centers of Disease Control and
Prevention; 2008;1-10.

Markowitz LE, Dunne EF, Saraiya M, et al. Use of 9-valent human papillomavirus
(HPV) vaccination: updated HPV vaccination recommendations of the Advisory
Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP). _MMWR - Morbidity & Mortality
Weekly Report. Recommendations and Reports._ 2014;63(RR05):1-30.

Petrosky E, Bocchini Jr JA, Hariri S, et al. Human papillomavirus vaccination:
recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices. _MMWR -
Morbidity & Mortality Weekly Report. _2015;64(11):300-304

Derkay CS, Wiatrak B. Recurrent respiratory papillomatosis: a review. [Review]
[106 refs]. _Laryngoscope_ 2008;118:1236-1247.

Ragin CC, Modugno F, Gollin SM. The epidemiology and risk factors of head and
neck cancer: a focus on human papillomavirus. [Review] [152 refs]. _Journal of
Dental Research_ 2007;86:104-114.

Kreimer AR, Clifford GM, Boyle P, Franceschi S. Human papillomavirus types in
head and neck squamous cell carcinomas worldwide: a systematic review.
[Review] [31 refs]. _Cancer Epidemiology, Biomarkers & Prevention_
2005;14:467-475.

Gillison ML. Human papillomavirus-related diseases: oropharynx cancers and
potential implications for adolescent HPV vaccination. [Review] [99 refs].
_Journal of Adolescent Health_ 2008;43:Suppl-60.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Making Sense of Your Pap and HIV
Test Results. _Centers for Disease Control and Prevention_ [serial online]
2008; Available from: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Accessed
February 25, 2010.

National Cancer Institute. Pap Test Fact Sheet. _National Cancer Institute_
[serial online] 2009; Available from: National Cancer Institute. Accessed
February 25, 2010.

Keet IP, brecht van LN, Sandfort TG, Coutinho RA, van Griensven GJ. Orogenital
sex and the transmission of HIV among homosexual men. _AIDS_ 1992;6:223-226.

del Romero J., Marincovich B, Castilla J et al. Evaluating the risk of HIV
transmission through unprotected orogenital sex. _AIDS_ 2002;16:1296-1297.

de Vincenzi I. A longitudinal study of human immunodeficiency virus
transmission by heterosexual partners. European Study Group on Heterosexual
Transmission of HIV. _New England Journal of Medicine_ 1994;331:341-346.

Page-Shafer K, Shiboski CH, Osmond DH et al. Risk of HIV infection
attributable to oral sex among men who have sex with men and in the population
of men who have sex with men. _AIDS_ 2002;16:2350-2352.

Samuel MC, Hessol N, Shiboski S, Engel RR, Speed TP, Winkelstein W, Jr.
Factors associated with human immunodeficiency virus seroconversion in
homosexual men in three San Francisco cohort studies, 1984-1989. _Journal of
Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndromes_ 1993;6:303-312.

Vittinghoff E, Douglas J, Judson F, McKirnan D, MacQueen K, Buchbinder SP.
Per-contact risk of human immunodeficiency virus transmission between male
sexual partners. _American Journal of Epidemiology_ 1999;150:306-311.

Lavoie E, Alary M, Remis RS et al. Determinants of HIV seroconversion among
men who have sex with men living in a low HIV incidence population in the era
of highly active antiretroviral therapies. _Sexually Transmitted Diseases_
2008;35:25-29.

Schacker T. The role of HSV in the transmission and progression of HIV.
[Review] [45 refs]. _Herpes_ 2001;8:46-49.

van Griensven GJ, Tielman RA, Goudsmit J et al. Risk factors and prevalence of
HIV antibodies in homosexual men in the Netherlands. _American Journal of
Epidemiology_ 1987;125:1048-1057.

Raiteri R, Fora R, Sinicco A. No HIV-1 transmission through lesbian sex.
_Lancet_ 1994;344:270.

Darrow WW, Echenberg DF, Jaffe HW et al. Risk factors for human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infections in homosexual men. _American Journal
of Public Health_ 1987;77:479-483.

Moir S, Chun T-W, Fauci AS. Immunology and Pathogenesis of Human
Immunodeficiency Virus Infection. In: Holmes KK, Sparling PF, Stamm WE et al.,
eds. _Sexually Transmitted Diseases_. Fourth ed. New York: McGraw-Hill;
2008;341-358.

Coombs RW. Clinical Laboratory Diagnosis of HIV-1 and Use of Viral RNA to
Monitor Infection. In: Holmes KK, Sparling PF, Stamm WE et al., eds. _Sexually
Transmitted Diseases_. Fourth ed. New York: McGraw-Hill; 2008;1329-1347.

Eron JJ, Hirsch MS. Antiviral Therapy of Human Immunodeficiency Virus
Infection. In: Holmes KK, Sparling PF, Stamm WE et al., eds. _Sexually
Transmitted Diseases_. Fourth ed. New York: McGraw-Hill; 2008;1393-1421.

Kaplan JE, Masur H. Preventing Opportunistic Infections Among HIV-Infected
Persons. In: Holmes KK, Sparling PF, Stamm WE et al., eds. _Sexually
Transmitted Diseases_. Fourth ed. New York: McGraw-Hill; 2008;1423-1440.

Decker CF, Masur H. Clinical Management of HIV Infection: Management of
Opportunistic Infections. In: Holmes KK, Sparling PF, Stamm WE et al., eds.
_Sexually Transmitted Diseases_. Fourth ed. New York: McGraw-Hill;
2008;1441-1467.

Cornett PA, Volberding P. AIDS-Related Malignancies. In: Holmes KK, Sparling
PF, Stamm WE et al., eds. _Sexually Transmitted Diseases_. Fourth ed. New
York: McGraw-Hill; 2008;1470-1421.

Press N, Chavez VM, Ticona E et al. Screening for sexually transmitted
diseases in human immunodeficiency virus-positive patients in Peru reveals an
absence of Chlamydia trachomatis and identifies Trichomonas vaginalis in
pharyngeal specimens. _Clinical Infectious Diseases_ 2001;32:808-814.

Hobbs MM, Sena AC, Swygard H, Schwebke JR. Trichomas vaginalis and
Trichomoniasis. In: Holmes KK, Sparling PF, Stamm WE et al., eds. _Sexually
Transmitted Diseases_. Fourth ed. New York: McGraw-Hill; 2008;771-793.

Lemon SM, Lok A, Alter MJ. Viral Hepatitis. In: Holmes KK, Sparling PF, Stamm
WE et al., eds. _Sexually Transmitted Diseases_. Fourth ed. New York: McGraw-
Hill; 2008;509-543.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. _Shigella sonnei_ Outbreak Among
Men Who Have Sex with Men -- San Francisco, California, 2000-2001\. _MMWR -
Morbidity & Mortality Weekly Report_ 2001;50:922-926.

Aragon TJ, Vugia DJ, Shallow S et al. Case-control study of shigellosis in San
Francisco: the role of sexual transmission and HIV infection. _Clin Infect
Dis_ 2007;44:327-334.

Rompalo AM, Quinn TC. Sexually Transmitted Intestinal Syndromes. In: Holmes
KK, Sparling PF, Stamm WE et al., eds. _Sexually Transmitted Diseases_. Fourth
ed. New York: McGraw-Hill; 2008;1277-1308.

Salit IE, Khairnar K, Gough K, Pillai DR. A possible cluster of sexually
transmitted Entamoeba histolytica: genetic analysis of a highly virulent
strain. _Clin Infect Dis_ 2009;49:346-353.

Stark D, van Hal SJ, Matthews G, Harkness J, Marriott D. Invasive amebiasis in
men who have sex with men, Australia. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_
2008;14:1141-1143.

Baggaley RF, White RG, Boily MC. Systematic review of orogenital HIV-1
transmission probabilities. [Review] [29 refs]. _International Journal of
Epidemiology_ 2008;37:1255-1265.

Bratt GA, Berglund T, Glantzberg BL, Albert J, Sandstrom E. Two cases of oral-
to-genital HIV-1 transmission. _International Journal of STD & AIDS_
1997;8:522-525.

Edwards S, Carne C. Oral sex and the transmission of viral STIs. [Review] [99
refs]. _Sexually Transmitted Infections_ 1998;74:6-10.

Edwards SK, White C. HIV seroconversion illness after orogenital contact with
successful contact tracing. _International Journal of STD & AIDS_
1995;6:50-51.

Lifson AR, O'Malley PM, Hessol NA, Buchbinder SP, Cannon L, Rutherford GW. HIV
seroconversion in two homosexual men after receptive oral intercourse with
ejaculation: implications for counseling concerning safe sexual practices.
_American Journal of Public Health_ 1990;80:1509-1511.

Varghese B, Maher JE, Peterman TA, Branson BM, Steketee RW. Reducing the risk
of sexual HIV transmission: quantifying the per-act risk for HIV on the basis
of choice of partner, sex act, and condom use. _Sexually Transmitted Diseases_
2002;29:38-43.

Weinstock H, Workowski KA. Pharyngeal gonorrhea: an important reservoir of
infection? _Clinical Infectious Diseases_ 2009;49:1798-1800.

Robinson EK, Evans BG. Oral sex and HIV transmission. [Review] [16 refs].
_AIDS_ 1999;13:737-738.

Rothenberg RB, Scarlett M, del RC, Reznik D, O'Daniels C. Oral transmission of
HIV. [Review] [126 refs]. _AIDS_ 1998;12:2095-2105.

Hawkins DA. Oral sex and HIV transmission. _Sexually Transmitted Infections_
2001;77:307-308.

Page last reviewed: February 27, 2020

Content source: Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention

home Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diseases & Related Conditionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * HIV/AIDS & STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STDs & Infertility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STDs during Pregnancyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Detailed Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment and Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Risk and Oral Sex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other STDsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Life Stages and Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adolescents and Young Adultsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Adolescents and Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Adolescents and STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gay, Bisexual and Other MSMplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gay Men & STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Just Diagnosed?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Which STD Tests Should I Get?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Lowdown Infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Program Management & Evaluation Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Effective Interventions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gap Assessment Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Outbreak Response Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Congenital Syphilis HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Disseminated Gonococcal Infection HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gonorrhea with Reduced SusceptibilityÂ HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * LGV HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Practical Use of Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Program Operations Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * S.P.A.C.E. Monkey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Data Management & Information Technologyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Generic Information Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * BPMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Partner Servicesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Internet Partner Services Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * VCAmon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CS Webinar Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Projects & Initiativesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD PCHDplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * National Disease Intervention Specialist (DIS) Recognition Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project (GISP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Health Equityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Community Approaches to Reducing STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Indian Health Service Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SDMB Contacts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tools & Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Brochuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The Facts Brochures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * ä¸­æ (Chinese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * KreyÃ²l (Haitian Creole)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ð ÑÑÑÐºÐ¸Ð¹ (Russian)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tiáº½ng ViÃªt (Vietnamese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevention Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Provider Pocket Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicated Content
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos and Podcastsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Letâs Talk About Sexual Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Safe in the City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Webinars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Widgets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Trainingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Prevention Coursesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Passport to Partner Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Advanced STD Intervention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Visual Case Analysis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Principles of STD Supervision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Intervention for Supervisors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Essentials of STD Supervision I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tailored Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Continuing Education Online
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SASSI â SAS Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD 101 in a Boxplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Script for _Sex in the City_ Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Clinical Slidesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Clinical Slides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Picture Cardsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Picture Cards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment and Screeningplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Drug Noticesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gemifloxacin 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Procaine Penicillin G Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Erythromycin (0.5%) Ophthalmic Ointment Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Expedited Partner Therapyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gonorrhea Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Legal Status of EPT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Legal/Policy Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prenatal Syphilis Screening Laws
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD QCS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Additional Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About the Division of STD Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fundingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Disease Intervention Training Centers (DITC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * National Network of STD Clinical Prevention Training Centers (NNPTC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * SSuN: Program and other NOFO Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Funding Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Strategic Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive

Follow STD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social_round_twitter twitter STD on Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social_round_facebook facebook STD on Facebook

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

