https://www.cdc.gov/std/treatment/default.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/std/treatment/default.htm    
                Description: Treatment guidelines for sexually transmitted diseases from CDC    
                Keywords: treatment guidelines,  treatment,  2010,  STD,  sexually transmitted diseases,  prevention,  venereal disease,  VD,  chlamydia,  LGV,  gonorrhea,  syphilis,  human papillomavirus,  HPV,  herpes,  HSV,  trichomoniasis,  bacterial vaginosis,  BV,  surveillance,  STI, Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate

# Treatment and Screening

Minus

Related Pages

This page can be syndicated (added to your website).

![STD QCS](/std/treatment/images/qcs-79.png)

### Recommendations for Providing Quality STD Clinical Services (STD QCS)

CDC Recommendations for Providing Quality STD Clinical Services, 2020 (STD
QCS) MMWR and a graphic explaining how STD QCS and the STI Treatment
Guidelines can work together to optimize care.



![STD Treatment Guidelines, 2015](/std/treatment/images/79x79.jpg)

### 2015 STD Treatment Guidelines

Recommendations for treating persons who have or are at risk for STDs.
Includes regimens, evidence tables, wall chart, and pocket guide. The _2015
Guidelines_ are the most current version of this document. The _2015
Guidelines_ update the previous _2010 Guidelines_ with new diagnostic,
treatment, and prevention recommendations for STDs.



![Expedited Partner Therapy](/std/treatment/images/79x79ept.jpg)

### Expedited Partner Therapy

Providing prescriptions or medications to the patient to take to his/her
partner without the health care provider first examining the partner.



![Additional STD Treatment Resources](/std/treatment/images/79x79addl.jpg)

### Additional Resources

General STD treatment updates and resources, including Dear Colleague Letters,
podcasts, and scientific articles.

![Image of empty pill bottles. NOTICE: There is currently a national shortage
of:](/std/treatment/images/drug-notice350.jpg)

Gemifloxacin

Erythromycin (0.5%) Ophthalmic Ointment

Highlights

The Diagnosis, Management and Prevention of Syphilis: An Update and Reviewpdf
iconexternal icon - A clinical guidance document for use in the diagnosis and
management of syphilis. Based on content from the 2015 CDC STD Treatment
Guidelines, and developed by the NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene
Bureau of Sexually Transmitted Infections and the NYC STD Prevention Training
Center. (March 2019)

![MMWR graphic](/std/images/Final-NHBS-MMWR-Visual-Abstract-for-Social-
small.jpg)

New CDC analysis suggests gay, bisexual, and other men who have sex with men
(MSM) are at increased risk for extragenital STDs [i.e., chlamydia or
gonorrhea in the throat or rectum] (April 11, 2019)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Extragenital Chlamydia and Gonorrhea Among Community Venue-Attending Men Who Have Sex with Men -- Five Cities, United States, 2017

Syphilis Pocket Guide for Providerspdf icon - Updated booklet for providers
containing need-to-know details on the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of
syphilis. (November 30, 2017)

National STD Curriculumexternal icon - An online modular learning experience
that helps users learn how to manage STDs. It is continuously updated and
integrates the most recent STD Treatment Guidelines. Free CME/CNE available.
(November 1, 2017)

CDC Recommendations for Diagnosing and Managing Shigella Strains with Possible
Reduced Susceptibility to Ciprofloxacin - This Health Advisory describes the
identification of emerging Shigella strains with elevated minimum inhibitory
concentration values for ciprofloxacin and outlines new recommendations for
clinical diagnosis, management, and reporting, as well as new recommendations
for laboratories and public health officials.

Emerging Drug-Resistant Gonorrhea: What's New and What Now?external icon - Dr.
Gail Bolan, Director of CDC's Division of STD Prevention, discusses latest
trends in drug resistant gonorrhea and provides an overview of treatment for
this common sexually transmitted disease. (March 6, 2017)

Success Stories

![Expedited Partner Therapy: Helping to Reduce Sexually Transmitted
Infections](/std/products/success/images/EPT-Success-Story-2016-thumb.jpg)

Expedited Partner Therapy: Helping to Reduce Sexually Transmitted Infections

Illinois and Chicago working to expand the use of EPT to reach more partners
with the medication they need.

![Thumbnail - Click to open PDF](/std/products/success/images/PTC-Success-
Story_2016_thumbnail120.jpg)

STD Prevention Training Centers: Supporting the STD Workforce

Two stories of PTCs in St. Louis and Denver whose innovative projects have
gone above and beyond to meet the needs of providers.

![Success Story](/std/products/success/images/nnptc-Aug2019-120px.png)

Community Connections, Nationwide Impacts: CDC's National Network of STD
Clinical Prevention Training Centers Delivers Vital Support to Clinicians

These training centers ensure clinicians have access to crucial clinical
resources to help diagnose, treat, and prevent STDs.

![Public Health and Primary Care: Forging Partnerships That
Matter](/std/products/success/images/Public-Health-Primary-
Care_Page_1-120.jpg)

Public Health and Primary Care: Forging Partnerships That Matter

California and New Hampshire programs working with primary care providers to
improve the lives of people they serve.

badge icon

More STD Prevention Success Stories

Page last reviewed: December 16, 2019

Content source: Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention

home Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diseases & Related Conditionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * HIV/AIDS & STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STDs & Infertility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STDs during Pregnancyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Detailed Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Treatment and Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Risk and Oral Sex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other STDsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Life Stages and Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Adolescents and Young Adultsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Adolescents and Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Adolescents and STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gay, Bisexual and Other MSMplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gay Men & STDs Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Just Diagnosed?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Which STD Tests Should I Get?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Lowdown Infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Program Management & Evaluation Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Effective Interventions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gap Assessment Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Outbreak Response Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Congenital Syphilis HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Disseminated Gonococcal Infection HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gonorrhea with Reduced SusceptibilityÂ HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * LGV HAN Template
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Practical Use of Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Program Operations Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * S.P.A.C.E. Monkey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Data Management & Information Technologyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Generic Information Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * BPMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Partner Servicesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Internet Partner Services Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * VCAmon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CS Webinar Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Projects & Initiativesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD PCHDplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * National Disease Intervention Specialist (DIS) Recognition Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project (GISP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Health Equityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Community Approaches to Reducing STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Indian Health Service Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SDMB Contacts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tools & Materialsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Brochuresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The Facts Brochures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * ä¸­æ (Chinese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * KreyÃ²l (Haitian Creole)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ð ÑÑÑÐºÐ¸Ð¹ (Russian)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tiáº½ng ViÃªt (Vietnamese)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevention Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Provider Pocket Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicated Content
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Videos and Podcastsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Letâs Talk About Sexual Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Safe in the City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Webinars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Widgets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Trainingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Prevention Coursesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Passport to Partner Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Advanced STD Intervention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Visual Case Analysis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Principles of STD Supervision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Intervention for Supervisors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Essentials of STD Supervision I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tailored Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Continuing Education Online
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * SASSI â SAS Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD 101 in a Boxplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Script for _Sex in the City_ Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Clinical Slidesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Clinical Slides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD Picture Cardsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Picture Cards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment and Screeningplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Drug Noticesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gemifloxacin 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Procaine Penicillin G Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Erythromycin (0.5%) Ophthalmic Ointment Shortage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Expedited Partner Therapyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Gonorrhea Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Legal Status of EPT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Legal/Policy Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prenatal Syphilis Screening Laws
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STD QCS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Additional Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About the Division of STD Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fundingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Disease Intervention Training Centers (DITC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * National Network of STD Clinical Prevention Training Centers (NNPTC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Surveillance Network (SSuN)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * SSuN: Program and other NOFO Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Funding Archive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Strategic Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

#### See Also

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Viral Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tuberculosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * School Health

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

